
===== 第 1 页 =====

[2027 考研]
[考研外刊]
[说瘦就瘦]
摘要
一份只挑选会考内容的外刊

[ID 名称]
[日期及邮编地址]

===== 第 2 页 =====

目录
篇目1. Why do people keep buying printers they hate?人们为何仍不断购买自己讨
厌的打印机？（选自《金融时报》）....................................................................... 3
篇目2.What is the best way to keep your teeth healthy?保持牙齿健康的最佳方法是
什么？（选自《经济学人》）................................................................................. 10
篇目3 Live music seems recession-proof. Thank ticket scalpers 现场音乐产业似乎
能抵御经济衰退。（选自《经济学人》）............................................................. 16
篇目4.How harmful are electronic cigarettes?电子烟的危害有多大（选自《经济学
人》）......................................................................................................................... 20
篇目5.Donald Trump was right. Daylight Saving Time needs to go 唐纳德・特朗普
说得对，夏令时应当被废除。（选自《经济学人》）......................................... 26
篇目6.The nonsense behind America’s trade war 美国贸易战背后的无稽之谈.... 31
篇目7.What is a woman? Britain’s Supreme Court gives its answer......................... 36
篇目8 Zuckerberg on trial: why Meta deserves to win 扎克伯格应诉：Meta 为何理
应胜诉......................................................................................................................... 42
篇目9.Don’t overlook the many benefits of plastics.................................................. 48
篇目10 Chinese officials are encouraging office workers not to work so hard 中国官
员正鼓励职场人士不要过度劳累............................................................................. 54
篇目11.Reading diaries aloud：The art of over-sharing 大声朗读日记：过度分享的
艺术............................................................................................................................. 59
篇目12.Catalonia：Get them while they're young 加泰罗尼亚：趁还小，赶紧教67
篇目13.Artificial intelligence: DeepSeek,and ye shall find 人工智能：深求必有所
得................................................................................................................................. 71
篇目14.For media companies, news is becoming a toxic asset..................................78
篇目15.We need to rethink the Endangered Species Act 我们需要反思《濒危物种法
案》............................................................................................................................. 83
篇目16.The new geography of Paris: Making a splash..............................................90
篇目17. Machine learning：AI boot camp 机器学习：AI 强化训练营................. 96
篇目18.Let Consumers Decide Whether to Eat LabGrown Meat 将实验室培育肉的
抉择权交由消费者................................................................................................... 103
篇目19.Renaissance art：A room with no view...................................................... 108

===== 第 3 页 =====

篇目1. Why do people keep buying printers they hate?人们为何仍不断购买自己
讨厌的打印机？（选自《金融时报》）

A puzzling tale of capitalism and consumer psychology at a time of technological change
技术变革时期，一个关于资本主义与消费者心理的令人费解的故事
【1】I have a weird confession to make. I love my printer. I love it with the
wild-eyed fervour of a convert who wants everyone to know about it. (Yes, I am
good fun at dinner parties, why do you ask?) I’m not the only one. My machine— a
very boring black-and-white Brother laser printer— has a devoted following. It’s not
because it does anything special. It’s because it just . . . works.

我要坦白一件奇怪的 圣的事。我爱我的打印机。我以一个新皈依者那种想让所有人都知道的热切心态爱着
它。（没错，我在晚宴上可有趣了，你问这个干嘛？）我不是一个人。我的机器——一台非常无聊的黑白
兄弟牌激光打印机——拥有一批忠实的追随者。这不是因为它有什么特别的功能，而是因为它就是……能
用。

【2】This phenomenon— of people who are pathetically grateful in the year
2025 to have found a product which does what it’s meant to do— tells an interesting
story about capitalism and consumer psychology at a time of technological change.

这种现象——人们在2025 年还能为找到一款能正常使用的产品而感激涕零——讲述了技术变革时期
关于资本主义和消费者心理的一个有趣故事。

【3】I only love my printer because I have had so many terrible ones in the past:
ink priced like champagne; clogged nozzles; paper jams; connection problems. In
the US, people hate printers so much that you can pay to go into a “rage room” and
smash them up. Many have given up on the idea they can ever be anything but awful.
“Stop expecting printers to ‘just work’,” urged a leak New York Times article in
2016. “Most of you are going to hate something about any printer that you buy, and

===== 第 4 页 =====

there’s nothing you can do about it.” Even the printer-makers know the score. In 2023,
HP produced an advert of an infuriated man kicking a printer off the table, with the
tag line “Made to be less hated.”

我之所以爱我的打印机，只是因为我过去用过太多糟糕的打印机了：墨水贵如香槟； 喷头堵塞； 卡纸；
连接问题。在美国，人们非常痛恨打印机，甚至有人付费进入“发泄屋”把它们砸个粉碎。许多人已经放
弃了打印机还能好用的想法。2016 年《纽约时报》一篇悲观的文章呼吁道：“别再指望打印机‘能用就行’
了，你们大多数人都会讨厌所买打印机的某个方面，而且无能为力。”甚至连打印机制造商也知道情况。
2023 年，惠普推出了一则广告，里面一个愤怒的男人把打印机踢下桌子， 告语是“为减少憎恨而造”。

【4】At the root of the discontent is the industry’s “razor and blades” business
model, which involves selling ink-jet printers very cheaply, then making the profit
from high- margin ink cartridges. Cheap hardware is more likely to be flimsy and
unreliable, which enrages customers. The pricey ink cartridges also enrage
customers, especially when the printer companies try to stop them from using cheaper
ink from other brands instead.

不满的根源在于该行业的“剃须刀和刀片”商业模式，即低价销售喷墨打印机，然后通过高利润的墨
盒盈利。廉价的硬件更容易脆弱不 不可靠，这激怒了顾客。 昂贵的墨盒同样让顾客愤怒，尤其是当打印机公
司试图阻止他们使用其他品牌的廉价替代墨水时。

【5】But if consumers see the companies as the bad guys in this story, then the
companies probably see consumers who don’t want to buy their ink in much the same
way. As HP chief executive Enrique Lores put it in an interview with CNBC last year:
“We lose money on the hardware, we make money on supplies . . . Every time a
customer buys a printer, it’s an investment for us, we’re investing in that customer,
and if this customer doesn’t print enough or doesn’t use our supplies, it’s a bad
investment.”

===== 第 5 页 =====

但如果消费者把公司看作是故事里的反派，那么公司很可能也以类似眼光看待那些不想购买其墨水的
消费者。正如惠普首席执行官恩里克·洛雷斯去年接受CNBC 采访时所说：“我们在硬件上亏钱，在耗材上
赚钱……每次客户购买打印机，对我们都是一项投资，我们是在投资那个客户，如果这个客户打印量不够
或者不使用我们的耗材，那就是一笔坏投资。”

【6】Is there any escape from this doom loop of mutual disappointment? The
odd thing is, this isn’t a market which lacks options. Laser printers like mine (other
models and brands are available) use toner rather than ink, which is less troublesome
and doesn’t dry out if you only use it infrequently. They are a bit more expensive
upfront and the toner looks pricey on paper, but it lasts a long time (I have just had to
replace my first cartridge after five years.) It doesn’t print in colour but when I want
photos, I just order them online. Other people speak highly of ink tank printers which
cost a lot to buy, but almost nothing to run.

有没有办法摆脱这种相互失望的厄运循环？奇怪的是，这个市场并不缺乏选择。像我用的激光打印机
（还有其他型号和品牌）使用碳粉而不是墨水，这比较省心，即使不常用也不会干涸。它们前期价格稍贵，
碳粉看起来也不便宜，但使用寿命很长（我用了五年才刚换了第一个墨盒）。它不能打印彩色，但当我想
洗照片时，直接在网上订购就行了。还有人盛赞连供打印机，虽然购买成本高，但使用成本几乎为零。

【7】Even in a world of plentiful information online, it’s an interesting wrinkle
of capitalism that so many people continue to buy printers they hate. Some people
can’t afford to spend more upfront, of course. For others, the overload of information
and choice might be part of the problem. Psychological studies suggest that when
people are faced with difficult decisions, they tend to plump for the default. Add to
that the ingrained pessimism which whispers “all printers are rubbish anyway so I

may as well go for the cheapest”.

===== 第 6 页 =====

即使在线上信息丰富的世界里，仍有这么多人继续购买他们讨厌的打印机，这也是资本主义一个有趣
的特质。当然，有些人前期无法承担更高的花费。对另一些人来说，信息和选择的过载可能是问题的一部
分。 心理学研究表明，当人们面临困难抉择时，倾向于选择默认选项。再加上根深蒂的悲观情绪在低语：
“反正所有打印机都很垃圾，我不如选最便宜的”。

【8】One way to put an end to this sorry tale would be for people to stop having
printers altogether. This is indeed the way things are going, thanks to a world in which
you can do more and more via screens, from signing a contract to boarding a flight.
In its 2024 annual report, HP noted “continuing secular challenges related to,
among other things, decreased demand for printing products and solutions as a result
of increased digitisation and hybrid work.”

结束这个可悲故事的一种方法是人们完全不再拥有打印机。这确实是目前的发展趋势，因为在这个世
界上，你可以通过屏幕做越来越多的事情，从签署合同到登机。惠普在其2024 年度报告中指出：“持续面
临长期挑战，其中包括因数字化和混合办公模式普及导致的打印产品及解决方案需求下降。”

【9】But as the home printer market declines, the rage-inducing dynamics might
well intensify. Customers who don’t think they’re going to need to use a printer very
often will be more tempted to go for the cheapest ink-jet option. Their infrequent use
of the ink-jet will mean the nozzles are more likely to clog. Meanwhile, the fact these
customers aren’t printing much with their below-cost machines means the companies
might feel the need to lock them evermore- aggressively into their ink, and push new
products like subscriptions, which people also complain about.

但随着家用打印机市场的萎缩，这种令人愤怒的动态很可能会加剧。那些认为自己不常使用打印机的
客户会更倾向于选择最便宜的喷墨打印机。他们不经常使用喷墨打印机意味着喷头更容易堵塞。与此同时，
这些客户并未充分使用其低于成本价购买的机器这一事实，意味着公司可能会觉得有必要更激进地锁定他
们使用原装墨水，并推广订阅制等新产品，而这也招致了人们的抱怨。

===== 第 7 页 =====

【10】 With apologies to Antonio Gramsci, the old world is dying, and the new
world is not yet born. One day, we won’t need home printers at all. In the meantime,
just buy a black-and-white laser and thank me later.
套用安东尼奥·葛兰西的话：旧世界正在消亡，而新世界尚未诞生。总有一天，我们将完全不再需要
家用打印机。在那之前，去买一台黑白激光打印机吧，以后你会感谢我的。

===== 第 8 页 =====

考研考纲5500 词汇 hardware n. 硬件
advert n. 广告 induce v. 引起
afford v. 买得起 infuriate v. 激怒
aggressive adj. 激进的 ingrain v. 使根深蒂固
annual adj. 年度的 investment n. 投资
apology n. 道歉 jam n. 堵塞
bleak adj. 暗淡的 loop n. 循环
capitalism n. 资本主义 margin n. 利润
cartridge n. 墨盒；盒 mutual adj. 相互的
challenge n. 挑战 nozzle n. 喷嘴
champagne n. 香槟酒 option n. 选择
confess v. 坦白 overload n. 超载
contract n. 合同 pessimism n. 悲观
convert n. 皈依者 phenomenon n. 现象
decline v. 下降 plump v. 突然重重坐下
default n. 默认选项 pricey adj. 昂贵的
digitization n. 数字化 profit n. 利润
discontent n. 不满 psychological adj. 心理的
doom n. 厄运 razor n. 剃刀
dynamics n. 动态 reliable adj. 可靠的
fervor n. 热情 secular adj. 长期的
flimsy adj. 不结实的 smash v. 打碎

===== 第 9 页 =====

solution n. 解决方案
subscription n. 订阅
tag n. 标签
tank n. 箱，罐
tempt v. 诱惑
toner n. 碳粉
weird adj. 奇怪的
wrinkle n. 皱纹；小问题

===== 第 10 页 =====

篇目2.What is the best way to keep your teeth healthy?保持牙齿健康的最佳方
法是什么？（选自《经济学人》）

Tooth-brushing reigns supreme. But fluoride in tap water is a good safety net
刷牙至关重要。但自来水中的氟化物是一张良好的安全网
【1】Tap water across America has, for decades, been fortified with fluoride, a
negatively charged ion of the chemical element fluorine, in order to strengthen the
public’s teeth. But a scientific review published in 2024 by America’s National
Toxicology Programme, an arm of the country’s health department, found that high
levels of fluoride are associated with lower IQ in children.

几十年来，美国各地的自来水都添加了氟化 氯化物 （ 化学元 元素氟的带负电荷的离子），以增强公众的牙齿。
但该国卫生部门下属机构美国国家毒理学计划于2024 年发表的一项科学综述发现，高水平的氟化 氯化物与儿童
较低的智商有关。

【2】Even though no conclusive causal link has yet been found, a growing number
of cities are planning to end fluoridation, and specialised water filters, which remove
any fluoride present, are flying off the shelves. Public-health experts caution that the
evidence of harm is thin, and fluoridated tap water keeps teeth healthy. But is it
really necessary?

尽管尚未找到决定性的因果关系，但越来越多的城市正计划停止加氟，而能去除水中氟化物的专用滤
水器正在热销。公共卫生专家告诫说，证明有害的证据不足，且加氟自来水能保持牙齿健康。但这真的必
要吗？

【3】One of fluoride’s main functions is to strengthen and restore enamel the top
layer of teeth. This is vital to help them resist the acids that form in the mouth when
bacteria ferment the sugars in food and drink. Coating or bathing the teeth in

===== 第 11 页 =====

fluoride-rich substances can thus directly protect the teeth while also introducing
fluoride into the saliva. This has additional health benefits, as fluoride in saliva
inhibits bacterial metabolism, reducing acid production and the growth of plaque on
tooth surfaces. Fluoride can also be effective when swallowed, making its way to the
saliva via the bloodstream. (In children, circulating fluoride also enters the developing
tooth enamel.)

氟化物的主要功能之一是强化和复牙釉质 （牙齿的最外层）。这对于帮助牙齿抵抗细菌发 直发酵食物和
饮料中的糖分时在口腔中形成的酸至关重要。因此，用富含氟化物的物质覆盖或漱洗牙齿可以直接保护牙
齿，同时将氟化物引入唾液。这有额外的健康益处，因为唾液中的氟化物能抑制细菌代谢，减少酸的产生
和牙菌斑在牙齿表面的生长。氟化物在吞下时也有效，它通过血液进入唾液。（在儿童中，循环的氟化物
也会进入正在发育的牙釉质。）

【4】 trace amounts of fluoride are naturally present in a variety of foods, including
vegetables and shellfish. Higher quantities can be found in tea and coffee, whose
plants readily absorb fluoride from soil. A cup of tea made with distilled water
contains as much fluoride as anywhere between 100ml and two litres of fluoridated
water, depending on a range of factors including the variety of tea and soil where the
leaves were grown; a cup of brewed coffee prepared in the same way contains as
much as 300ml of fluoridated water. Toothpastes, mouth washes and fluoride gels are
also rich in the stuff.

微量氟化物天然存在于各种食物中，包括蔬菜和贝类。茶叶和咖啡中含有更高量的氟化物，它们的植
株容易从土壤中吸收氟。一杯用蒸馏水冲泡的茶所含的氟化物相当于100 毫升到两升加氟自来水中的量，
具体取决于茶叶品种和种植土壤等一系列因素；以同样方式冲泡的一杯咖啡所含的氟化物最多相当于300
毫升加氟自来水。牙膏、漱口水和氟化物凝胶也富含这种物质。

【5】Of all the ways of getting fluoride to teeth, brushing reigns supreme.
Effective toothbrushing means some of the fluoride in toothpaste gets deposited

===== 第 12 页 =====

directly onto the enamel, some ends up in saliva and some is swallowed. The resulting
boost in fluoride levels far exceed that produced by drinking fluoridated water.

在所有将氟化物送达牙齿的方法中，刷牙是最有效的。有效的刷牙意味着牙膏中的部分氟化物直接沉
积在牙釉质上，部分进入唾液，部分被吞下。由此带来的氟化物水平提升远远超过饮用加氟自来水所产生
的效果。

【6】In a report published in 2006, America’s National Research Council estimated
the typical amounts of fluoride ingested daily from toothbrushing across different
segments of the population. The Economist calculates that, for six- to 12-year-olds,
the figure is equivalent to somewhere between 300ml and 450ml of water fluoridated
to the national standard. For toddlers and young children it is between 150ml and
300ml; for adults it is around 150ml.

在2006 年发表的一份报告中，美国国家研究委员会估计了不同人群每天通过刷牙摄入的典型氟化物量。
《经济学人》计算出，对于6 至12 岁的儿童，该数字相当于按国家标准加氟的300 毫升到450 毫升水。对
于幼儿和幼童，则在150 毫升到300 毫升之间；对于成年人，约为150 毫升。

【7】Fluoride mouth washes, as well as the fluoride-rich gels and varnishes that
dentists apply to teeth, also offer big fluoride boosts, but are used less often. An
evidence review conducted in Britain in 2004 found that they only offer modest
additional protection to those already regularly brushing their teeth.

含氟漱口水以及牙医涂抹在牙齿上的富含氟化物的凝胶和涂料也能大幅提升氟化物水平，但使用频率
较低。2004 年在英国进行的一项证据综述发现，对于已经定期刷牙的人来说，它们只能提供有限的额外保
护。

【8】In this environment, fluoridated water still has a place. In a country the size of
America, tooth-brushing and access to dental care differ widely even between

===== 第 13 页 =====

adjacent neighbourhoods. For the sake of those without good dental hygiene and,
therefore, who are most at risk of tooth decay, this safety net should be dismantled
with caution.

在这种环境下，加氟水仍有一席之地。在美国这样幅员辽阔的国家，即使在相邻社区之间，刷牙情况
和获得牙科护理的机会也存在巨大差异。为了那些没有良好口腔卫生习惯因此最易患龋齿的人，这个安全
网应被谨慎取消。

===== 第 14 页 =====

考研5500 考纲词汇（选自本文）:
absorb v. 吸收 ingest v. 摄取
acid n. 酸 inhibit v. 抑制
adjacent adj. 邻近的 ion n. 离子
bacteria n. 细菌 metabolism n. 新陈代谢
boost n. 提升 modest adj. 适度的
cautious adj. 谨慎的 negative adj. 负的
circulate v. 循环 plaque n. 牙斑
conclusive adj. 决定性的 reign v. 统治
decay n. 腐烂 resist v. 抵抗
deposit v. 沉积 restore v. 恢复
dismantle v. 拆除 saliva n. 唾液
distill v. 蒸馏 segment n. 部分
element n. 元素 shellfish n. 贝类
enamel n. 珐琅质 strengthen v. 加强
equivalent adj. 相等的 substance n. 物质
exceed v. 超过 swallow v. 吞咽
ferment v. 发酵 tap water n. 自来水
filter n. 过滤器 toddler n. 学步儿童
fluoride n. 氟化物 toxicology n. 毒理学
fortify v. 增强 trace n. 微量

===== 第 15 页 =====

varnish n. 清漆
vital adj. 至关重要的

===== 第 16 页 =====

篇目3 Live music seems recession-proof. Thank ticket scalpers 现场音乐产业似
乎能抵御经济衰退。（选自《经济学人》）

Live music seems recession-proof. Thank ticket scalpers 这得归功于票贩子
【1】The mood music on Wall Street is downbeat, as America’s government
throttles trade and consumers seem poised to trim spending. Yet one corner of the
entertainment industry is partying on regardless. Live Nation, a concert promoter,
has said it expects the live-music industry to break records in 2025. Its Ticketmaster
app had 70% more traffic this February than last, reckons Sensor Tower, a data firm.

华尔街的氛围音乐低迷，因为美国政府限制贸易，消费者似乎也备削减开支。然而，娱乐业的一个
角落却在自顾自地狂欢。 演唱会推厂 Live Nation 表示，预计现场音乐产业将在2025 年打破纪录。数
据公司Sensor Tower 估计，其Ticketmaster 应用今年2 月的流量比去年增加了70%。

【2】This party may yet fizzle out. But the music business has a record of
performing well during downturns. Although concerts were clobbered by covid-19
lockdowns in 2020-21, during America’s previous three recessions live entertainment
held up even as spending on other forms of fun dipped, according to Goldman Sachs,
a bank (see chart).

这场派对或许仍会平息。但音乐产业有在经济低迷时期表现良好的记录。据高盛银行称，尽管乐会
在2020-21 年受到新冠封锁的沉重打击，但在美国之前的三次经济衰退中，现场娱乐活动依然坚挺，而其
他形式的娱乐消费却出现了下滑。

【3】Timing is one reason: concert-goers may book tickets months in advance, so
the impact of belt-tightening is delayed. Another is that the average big-name gig in
America is still cheaper than a night out on Broadway or at the National Football
League, meaning that concerts are not the first treats to be forgone in a crunch (they

===== 第 17 页 =====

may even serve as cheaper substitutes). The globalisation of music fandom also
protects touring artists from downturns. If demand falters in Johannesburg, add a date
in Jakarta.

时机是一个原因：音乐会观众可能提前数月订票，因此紧缩开支的影响会延迟。另一个原因是，美国
普通大牌演唱会的价格仍然低于在百老汇或国家橄榄球联盟度过一晚，这意味着音乐会不会是在经济困难
时首先被放弃的享受（它们甚至可能成为更便宜的代品）。音乐粉丝的全球也保护了巡回演出的艺术
家免受经济下滑的影响。如果约翰内斯堡的需求疲软，就在雅加达加演一场。

【4】The most improbable saviours of live music in recessions are a group more
often cast as villains: ticket touts. Concerts are deliberately underpriced, to ensure
that true fans—young and hip but penniless—make it into the audience alongside rich
oldies and corporatehospitality bores. Scalpers take advantage by buying tickets early,
then reselling them at the true market-clearing price. In booms they prosper: in 2019,
just before the pandemic, Live Nation said that the average uplift in ticket prices on
the secondary market in America was 70%, providing touts with a profit of $1.3bn
(more than Live Nation’s own operating profit that year).

经济衰退中现场音乐最不可的救星，是一群更常被当作反派的人： 票贩子 （黄牛）。音乐会故意定
个偏低，以确保真正的粉丝——年轻时髦但身无分文——能与富有的老家伙和企业招待的无聊人士一起进
入观众席。 黄牛通过提前购票，然后以真实的市场出清价格转售来获利。在经济繁荣时期他们生意兴隆：
2019 年，就在疫情爆发前，Live Nation 表示美国级市场票价的平均涨幅为70%，为黄牛带来了13 亿美
元的利润（超过了Live Nation 当年的运营利润）。

【5】But when demand softens, touts feel it first. Their billion-dollar profit pool in
effect shields the primary market from declines in consumer spending, argue
Stephen Laszczyk and Antares Tobelem of Goldman Sachs. “In the event of a
recession, we would expect that the secondary market would absorb most of the

===== 第 18 页 =====

pressure on marginal demand, insulating the underlying profitability of the
live-music industry,” they predict.

但当需求疲软时，黄牛最先感受到。高盛银行的Stephen Laszczyk 和Antares Tobelem 认为，他们数
十亿美元的利润池实际上保护了级市场免受消费者支出下降的影响。他们预测：“如果发生经济衰退，
我们预计二级市场将吸收边需求的大部分压力，从而隔离现场音乐产业的基本盈利能力。”

【6】If the direst forecasts for America’s economy come true, fans may not be
willing to pay as much to see bands like Oasis, whose comeback tour begins in July.
Yet with tickets already sold out in the primary market, the Gallagher brothers have
no need to worry. It is those trying to make a buck in the secondary market who will
have to roll with it.

如果对美国经济最悲观的预测成真，乐迷可能不愿意花那么多钱去看绿洲乐队（其复出巡演于7 月开
始）这样的乐队了。然而，随着门票在一级市场已售罄，加拉格尔兄弟无需担心。那些试图在二级市场赚
钱的人将不得不适应这种情况。

===== 第 19 页 =====

考研英语考纲词汇
absorb v. 吸收 primary adj. 主要的
belt-tightening n. 紧缩开支 profitability n. 盈利能力
boom n. 繁荣 promoter n. 推广者
clobber v. 猛击 prosper v. 繁荣
concert n. 音乐会 reckon v. 估计
crunch n. 困境 recession n. 衰退
dip v. 下降 secondary adj. 次要的
downturn n. 低迷 segment n. 部分
entertainment n. 娱乐 shield v. 保护
falter v. 衰退 soften v. 软化
fizzle v. 失败 substitute n. 替代品
forecast n. 预测 tout n. 黄牛
globalisation n. 全球化 trim v. 削减
hip adj. 时髦的 underlie v. 构成...的基础
improbable adj. 不大可能的 underprice v. 定价过低
insulate v. 隔离 uplift n. 提高
marginal adj. 边际的 villain n. 反派
poised adj. 准备就绪的

===== 第 20 页 =====

篇目4.How harmful are electronic cigarettes?电子烟的危害有多大（选自《经济
学人》）

The risks of vaping may be worth the benefits 电子烟的风险或许与其益处相当
【1】 RESTRICTIONS on vaping are multiplying. Belgium ban ned sales of
disposable vapes on January 1st. France adopted a similar law on February 24th.
Other bans on “puffs”, as these single-use electronic cigarettes are also known, may
soon come into force in England, Scotland, Wales and New Zealand. The latter’s law,
which takes effect on June 17th, even prohibits specialist retailers from speaking
with existing customers about vaping products. More than 30 countries including
Brazil, India and Turkey have outlawed all vaping products. Are such measures
justified?

对电子烟的限制正在增多。比利时于1 月1 日禁止销售次性电子烟。法国于2 月24 日通过了类似法
律。在英格兰、苏格兰、威尔士和新西兰，针对这些也被称为“puffs”的一次性电子烟的其他禁令可能很
快生效。后者的法律于6 月17 日生效，甚至禁止专业零售商与现有客户讨论电子烟产品。包括巴西、印度
和土耳其在内的30 多个国家已宣布所有电子烟产品为非法。这些措施合理吗？

【2】Vaping clearly carries risks. Starting in 2019, America’s centres for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) began to track a new inflammatory
respiratory disease known as EVALI (“e-cigarette or vaping product use-associated
lung injury”). As of February 18th 2020, the CDC had identified 2,807 admissions to
hospital for EVALI in America. At least 68 of those patients had died.

电子烟显然存在风险。从2019 年开始，美国疾病控制与预防中心开始追踪一种名为EVALI 的新型 炎症
性呼吸道疾病。截至2020 年2 月18 日，美国疾病控制与预防中心已在美国确认了2,807 例因EVALI 入院
的病例。这些患者中至少有68 人已经死亡。

===== 第 21 页 =====

【3】Swift action ensued. Researchers pointed fingers at vitamin E acetate, a
skincare oil that was added to many illicit batches of vaping liquids as a thickening
agent. When vitamin E acetate is vaporised by a vape’s heating coil, highly toxic

ketene gas is produced. Many jurisdictions outlawed any addition of vitamin E
acetate to vape liquids, and crackdowns on black markets followed. EVALI cases fell
sharply, and the CDC has not detected a resurgence.

随后迅速采取了行动。研究人员将矛头指向维生素E 乙酸酯，一种被添加到许多非法批次的电子烟液
中作为增稠剂的护肤油。当维生素E 乙酸酯被电子烟的加热线圈雾化时，会产生剧毒的乙烯酮气体。许多
司法管辖区禁止在电子烟液中添加任何维生素E 乙酸酯，随后对黑市进行了打击。EVALI 病例急剧下降，
且CDC 未发现其卷土重来。

【4】Yet health authorities believe EVALI might also be caused by other
substances in vape aerosols, including those that are manufactured legally. In a
landmark analysis of four popular vaping liquids published in Chemical Research in
Toxicology in 2021, a team at Johns Hopkins University labelled six ingredients—

including caffeine and tributylphosphine oxide, a pesticide precursor—as potentially
hazardous. Earlier studies had found vaping mixtures that used formaldehyde, as
well as heavy metals such as chromium and lead.

然而，卫生当局认为EVALI 也可能由电子烟气溶胶中的其他物质引起，包括合法生产的产品。在2021
年发表在《毒理学化学研究》上的一项对四种流行电子烟液的里程碑式分析 分析中，约翰斯·霍普金斯大学的
一个团队将六种成分——包括咖啡酸和氧化三丁基膦——标记为具有潜在危害。早期研究发现电子烟混合
物中含有甲醛以及铬和铅等重金属。

【5】There are other reasons to be concerned. First, as vaping only surged in
popularity in the past dozen or so years, cancer cases could still crop up. Lab mice,
which can develop diseases quickly owing to their fast metabolisms, have developed

===== 第 22 页 =====

cancers after being subjected to vape aerosols. The second is that vape aerosols have
been found to damage human tissue, including DNA, via a process called oxidative
stress.

还有其他令人担忧的理由。首先，由于电子烟仅在过去十几年左右才流行起来，癌症病例可能仍会出
现。由于其快速的新陈代谢能迅速诱发疾病，实验室小鼠在接触电子烟气溶胶后患上了癌症。其次是已发
现电子烟气溶胶通过一种称为氧化应激的过程损害人体组织，包括DNA。

【6】This sounds grim. Yet researchers mostly concur that vaping is less
harmful than smoking. Of the more than 7,000 substances generated by burning
tobacco, over 70 have been linked to cancer, and a greater number are toxic. Vape
aerosols share some of those carcinogens and toxins, but generally at much lower
levels. crucially, vaping delivers no carbon monoxide or tar, two of the biggest
nasties in cigarette smoke. A review of 39 studies that was published in January in
Tobacco Induced Diseases found “no significant incident or prevalent risk” of

cancer in vapers who had never smoked.
这听起来很严峻。然而研究人员大多致认电子烟的危害小于吸烟。烟草燃烧产生的7000 多种物质
中，有70 多种与癌症有关，更多的则具有毒性。电子烟气溶胶含有其中一些致癌物和毒素，但通常含量要
低得多。 关键的是，电子烟不会产生一氧化碳或焦油，这两种是香烟烟雾中最有害的物质。一月份发表在
《烟草引起的疾病》上的一篇对39 项研究的综述发现，在从不吸烟的电子烟使用者中，癌症“没有显著的
发生率或普遍风险”。

【7】What is more, taking up vaping, which mimics smoking gestures, seems to
make the latter habit easier to kick. Consider a study of 886 British smokers published
in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2019. All wanted to stop smoking.
Roughly half were given nicotine via patches, gum, mouth spray and the like. The rest
were given nicotine vapes. A year on, 9.9% of the first group had quit smoking. The

===== 第 23 页 =====

figure for those given vaping kits was 18%. And among participants still smoking, the
vapers had been lighting fewer cigarettes.

此外，使用模仿吸烟动作的电子烟似乎使戒烟更容易。考虑一下2019 年发表在《新英格兰医学杂志》
上的一项对886 名英国吸烟者的研究。所有人都想戒烟。大约一半的人通过贴片、口香糖、口腔喷雾等方
式获得尼古丁。其余的人获得含尼古丁的电子烟。一年后，第一组中有9.9%的人戒了烟。而获得电子烟套
装的人群中，这一数字是18%。并且在仍在吸烟的参与者中，使用电子烟的人吸烟数量减少了。

===== 第 24 页 =====

考研英语考纲5500 词汇（选自本文）
adopt v. 采用 hazardous adj. 有害的
analysis n. 分析 identify v. 识别
associate v. 关联 illegal adj. 非法的
ban n. 禁止 inflammatory adj. 炎症性的
batch n. 批次 ingredient n. 成分
cancer n. 癌症 injure v. 伤害
carbon n. 碳 jurisdiction n. 司法管辖区
centre n. 中心 landmark n. 里程碑
chemical adj. 化学的 latter adj. 后者的
chromium n. 铬 mixture n. 混合物
concur v. 同意 monoxide n. 氧化物
crackdown n. 打击 multiply v. 增加
crucially adv. 关键地 outlaw v. 宣布非法
detect v. 检测 oxide n. 氧化物
disease n. 疾病 popularity n. 流行
disposable adj. 一次性的 prevalent adj. 普遍的
electronic adj. 电子的 prohibit v. 禁止
force n. 效力 publication n. 出版
formaldehyde n. 甲醛 respiratory adj. 呼吸的
generate v. 产生 restriction n. 限制
grim adj. 严峻的 resurgence n. 再度兴起

===== 第 25 页 =====

retailer n. 零售商
review n. 综述
similar adj. 类似的
specialist n. 专家
substance n. 物质
surge v. 激增
toxic adj. 有毒的
track v. 追踪

===== 第 26 页 =====

篇目5.Donald Trump was right. Daylight Saving Time needs to go 唐纳德・特朗
普说得对，夏令时应当被废除。（选自《经济学人》）

Evidence on the health costs is piling up 关于（夏令时）健康代价的证据正越来越
多。
【1】Every spring about 1.6bn people have to change their clocks as they move
into Daylight Saving Time. For many, including Europeans this week, the joys of the
season include a sleep- deprived few days after the clocks change and having to
explain to children bouncing off the walls that, despite the bright daylight outside, it is
in fact bedtime.

每年春天，约有16 亿人在进入夏令时时不得不调整时钟。对许多人（包括本周的欧洲人）来说，这个
季节的“乐趣”包括时钟调整后睡眠不足的几天，以及不得不向兴奋过度的孩子们解释，尽管外面天还亮
着，但事实上已经是睡觉时间了。

【2】The origin of daylight saving lies in efforts to use less energy in wartime,
by having more sunshine in the evening. But the evidence suggests that the costs are
surprisingly large, not just because of the immediate disruption to people’s daily
lives, but also because of the longer-term biological consequences of moving out of
sync with the Sun. In December Donald Trump, then president-elect, seemed to
concur, saying that daylight saving was inconvenient and costly, and suggesting he
would scrap it when back in office. He is now vacillating, but he should stand firm.
Daylight Saving Time needs to go.

夏令时的起源是为了在战时通过傍晚拥有更多阳光来节约能源。但证据表明，其代价惊人地巨大，不
仅因为其对人们日常生活的直接干扰，还因为与太阳不同步所带来的长期主物性后果。去年12 月，当时还
是总统当选人的唐纳德·特朗普似乎也同意此观点，称夏令时不方便且成本高昂，并暗示他上任后将废除
它。他现在犹豫不决，但他应该坚持立场。夏令时需要被取消。

===== 第 27 页 =====

【3】The disruption it causes to people’s lives adds up. Immediately after the
clock change, the sleep deprivation that follows is associated with a spike in the
number of heart attacks, strokes and fatal car accidents. Overdoses and medical
errors rise. Even stockmarket performance suffers on the Monday after daylight
saving is introduced.

它对人们生活造成的干扰是累积的。时钟调整后，随之而来的睡眠不足立即与心脏病发作、中风和致
命交通事故数量的激增相关联。 用药过量和医疗失误也会增加。甚至在实行夏令时后的那个周一，股市表
现也会受到影响。

【4】Some American lawmakers are therefore proposing to “lock the clock”
and stay on Daylight Saving Time all year round. Florida passed legislation to this
effect in 2018. But these moves are causing sleep scientists still more restless nights,
because the evidence is piling up that the shift towards daylight saving brings
longer-lasting problems.

因此，一些美国立法者提议“锁定时钟”，全年实行夏令时。佛罗里达州在2018 年通过了此类立法。
但这些举动正让睡眠科学家们更加夜不能寐，因为越来越多的证据表明，转向夏令时会带来更持久的问题。

【5】Humans have evolved over millennia to be in sync with the Sun. Light
regulates human rhythms. Body clocks rely on bright light in the morning and an
absence of it in the evening. Daylight Saving Time, which lengthens evenings, takes
people further away from the natural cycle. It means they miss out on bright-blue light
in the morning, something that resets the body clock and in turn triggers the
regulation of things like body temperatures, heart rates and levels of a hormone
called cortisol, which helps people feel alert. It also sets the body up for a good night’
s sleep, and regulates appetite through hormones that make you feel hungry or full.

人类经过数千年进化已与太阳同步。光线调节着人体的节律。生物钟依赖于早晨的明亮光线和傍晚的
黑暗。延长傍晚的夏令时使人们进一步远离自然周期。这意味着他们错过了早晨的蓝光，而这种光能重置

===== 第 28 页 =====

生物钟，进而触发体温、心率和一种名为质醇 （有助于使人保持警觉）的激素水平等的调节。它也为身
体的良好夜间睡眠做好准备，并通过让你感到饥饿或饱腹的激素来调节食欲。

【6】The extra hour of light in the evening fails to make up for this loss of
morning light, and even compounds the problem. Getting more sunshine in the
evening further disrupts the onset of sleep. As a consequence, the American academy
of Sleep Medicine warned in 2024 that this misalignment between human circadian
rhythms and daylight was associated with metabolic syndrome cardiovascular
disease and poorer academic performance.

傍晚多出来的一小时光照无法弥补早晨光照的损失，甚至加剧了问题。傍晚获得更多阳光进一步扰乱
了睡眠的开始。因此，美国睡眠医学学会在2024 年警告称，人类昼夜节律与日光之间的这种失调与代谢综
合征、 心血疾病和较差的学业表现有关。

【7】Those who have to work early, or who live in the westernmost parts of time
zones, feel these effects more acutely. A study of people living on opposite ends of the
same time zone estimated that the shift to daylight saving meant a loss for westerners
of about 19 minutes of shut-eye a night. They are more likely to be overweight and to
earn less than those to the east. And a small study suggests that teenagers, who are
already burdened with a delay in their circadian rhythm thanks to puberty, lose 32
minutes of sleep owing to Daylight Saving Time. No wonder they are so moody.

那些必须很早工作或居住在同一时区最西部的人更能敏锐地感受到这些影响。一项对居住在同一时区
两端的人进行的研究估计，转为夏令时意味着西部居民每晚损失约19 分钟的睡眠。他们比东部居民更可能
超重且收入更低。一项小型研究表明，本就因青春期而昼夜节律延迟的青少年，因夏令时会损失32 分钟的
睡眠。难怪他们情绪如此多变。

【8】Some people say they prefer the long evenings under Daylight Saving Time.
But evenings get longer anyway, regardless of whether the clocks change, thanks to

===== 第 29 页 =====

Earth’s axial tilt and its orbit around the Sun. Those who really want an extra hour of
light in their day could get up earlier rather than imposing costs on everyone else. A
few places are already dropping Daylight Saving Time. Mr Trump should join much
of Mexico, and his good friend Vladimir Putin, in doing so.

有些人说他们更喜欢夏令时下的漫长傍晚。但不管时钟是否调整，由于地球的轴向倾斜和绕太阳公转，
傍晚自然会变长。那些真正想在一天中多拥有一小时光照的人可以早起，而不是将代价虽加于他人。一些
地方已经废除了夏令时。特朗普先生应该加入墨西哥大部分地区及其好友弗拉基米尔·普京的行列，也这
样做。

===== 第 30 页 =====

考研5500 考纲词汇（选自本文）:
academy n. 学院 overweight adj. 超重的
axial adj. 轴的 rhythm n. 节律
biological adj. 生物的 scrap v. 废弃
cardiovascular adj. 心血管的 spike n. 激增
circadian adj. 昼夜节律的 syndrome n. 综合征
compound v. 加剧 vacillate v. 犹豫
concur v. 同意
consequence n. 后果
cortisol n. 皮质醇
deprivation n. 剥夺
disruption n. 扰乱
evolve v. 进化
fatal adj. 致命的
hormone n. 激素
impose v. 强加
legislation n. 立法
metabolic adj. 新陈代谢的
misalignment n. 失调
moody adj. 情绪化的
origin n. 起源
overdose n. 过量用药

===== 第 31 页 =====

篇目6.The nonsense behind America’s trade war 美国贸易战背后的无稽之谈
（选自《华盛顿邮报》）
The Trump administration’s rationale for imposing worldwide tariffs is
economically unsound. 特朗普政府在全球范围内征收关税的理由，在经济层面站不住脚。

【1】On Wednesday, the Trump administration detailed the thinking behind its
plan to undermine the global trading system and the economic order that the United
States helped build over the past 80 years. To those hoping to understand this
rationale, forget it. President Donald Trump’s “Liberation Day” is about wielding
power, the economy be damned.

周三，特朗普文府详细阐述了其计划背后的考量，该计划旨在破坏全球贸易体系以及美国在过去80 年
间帮助建立的经济秩序。对于那些希望理解这一逻辑的人，别费心了。唐纳德·特朗普总统的“解放日”
关乎行使权力，经济靠边站。

【2】From the list of targets— which includes several uninhabited islands
populated by penguins and polar bears that export nothing to the U.S.— to the
theory of harm the administration uses to justify its protectionism and the formula it
uses to calculate tariffs, the White House’s plan is an astonishing display of
economic ignorance.

从目标清单——包括几个只有企鹅和北极熊居住、不向美国出口任何东西的无人岛——到政府用来为
其保护主义辩护的损害理论，以及其计算关税的公式，白宫的计划惊人地展示了经济无知。

第三段敏感，故而删除
【4】But this phenomenon is largely over. And Trump’s other proposition—
that the world’s liberal trading system has wreaked havoc on the American economy

===== 第 32 页 =====

and unravelled its social fabric— is not true. The U.S. is the biggest winner of the
postwar economic order, growing faster than most other advanced economies. And
this is unsurprising: The system was built to American specifications.

但这种现象已基本结束。而特朗普的另一个主张——即世界自由贸易体系对美国经济造成严重破坏并
瓦解了其社会结构——是不真实的。美国是战后经济秩序的最大赢家，其增长速度超过大多数其他发达经
济体。这并不奇怪：该体系本就是按照美国的规格建立的。

【5】Every other thought that flows from this wrong idea is likewise incorrect.
Tariffs cannot close the trade deficit, as Trumps says. The trade deficit reflects the
large amount of foreign money that pours into the U.S. to cover its budget deficit. And
because this deficit is unrelated to any real measure of prosperity— including
manufacturing production, employment or wages— zeroing it out would yield no
benefit. As financial markets apparently realize, trying to do so would most likely
tank the U.S. economy.

从这个错误想法衍生出的所有其他想法同样不正确。正如特朗普所说，关税不能消除贸易逆差。贸易
逆差反映了为弥补其预算赤字而涌入美国的大量外国资金。而且，由于这种逆差与任何实际的繁荣指标—
—包括制造业产出、就业或工资——无关，将其降为零不会带来任何好处。正如金融市场显然意识到的，
试图这样做很可能会搞垮美国经济。

【6】What makes the least sense of all is to try to balance trade with all other
countries. Yet this is the formula for Trump’s “reciprocal” tariffs, applied to about
60 countries that dare to have trade surpluses with the U.S. The tariffs are designed to
be zero percent when a country has no surplus with the U.S. and 100 percent when a
country exports to the U.S. without importing anything in return. All other tariffs are
calculated on a sliding scale that reflects any imbalance.

最不合理的是试图与所有其他国家平衡贸易。然而，这正是特朗普 " 对等 " 关税的公式，适用于大约
60 个胆敢与美国有贸易顺差的国家。该关税设计为：当一个国家对美国没有顺差时税率为零，当一个国家

===== 第 33 页 =====

向美国出口而不进口任何东西作为回报时税率为100%。所有其他关税均根据反映任何不平衡情况的滑动比
例计算。

【7】It should not be too late for Trump to learn some basic principles of
economics. He might pay attention to Germany, where the footprint of manufacturing
employment is shrinking (as it is in the U.S.), despite Germany’s persistent trade
surplus.

对特朗普来说，学习一些经济学基本原理应该为时未晚。他或许可以关注德国，尽管德国拥有持续的
贸易顺差，但其制造业就业的足迹正在缩小（美国也是如此）。

【8】Or he might learn from the consequences of his own policies. The tariffs on
imported steel he imposed during his first administration, for instance, did next to
nothing to improve steel production or employment in the U.S.

或者他可以从自己政策的后果中吸取教训。例如，他在第一个任期内对进口钢铁征收的关税，几乎未
能改善美国的钢铁产量或就业。

【9】Most critically, Trump might learn from the fallout of previous attacks on
the global trading system. Trade today amounts to a much larger share of economic
output than it did in the 1930s, when the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act exacerbated the
economic loss of the Great Depression. Yet Trump’s new levies bring the average U.S.
tariff back to where it was in 1933.

最关键的是，特朗普或许可以从以往对全球贸易体系攻击的后果中吸取教训。如今贸易在经济产出中
所占的份额比1930 年代要大得多，当时《斯姆特-霍利关税法》 加剧了大萧条的经济损失。然而，特朗普
的新关税将使美国的平均关税回到1933 年的水平。

===== 第 34 页 =====

【10】 Misconceived as Trump’s tariff barrage may appear to an economist’
s eye, it hews to an underlying logic about the exercise of power. Regardless of their
effects on production or employment, Trump’s tariffs will compel companies across
the economy and countries across the world to seek a deal with America’s leader.
This seems to be Trump’s only realistic goal

尽管在经济学家看来，特朗普的关税攻势可能是错误的，但它遵循了一种关于权力行使的内在逻辑。
无论其对生产或就业的影响如何，特朗普的关税将迫使整个经济领域的公司和世界各国寻求与美国的领导
人达成协议。这似乎是特朗普唯一现实的目标。

===== 第 35 页 =====

考研5500 考纲词汇（选自本文）:
administration n. 政府 liberal adj. 自由的
amass v. 积累 misconceive v. 误解
astonishing adj. 令人惊讶的 phenomenon n. 现象
barrage n. 连串 populate v. 居住于
beef n. 抱怨 protectionism n. 保护主义
compel v. 迫使 rationale n. 理由
consequence n. 后果 reciprocal adj. 对等的
constrain v. 限制 shock n. 冲击
consumption n. 消费 sliding scale n. 浮动计算法
damn v. 谴责 subsidize v. 补贴
deficit n. 赤字 surplus n. 顺差
detail v. 详细说明 tariff n. 关税
dominant adj. 主导的 undermine v. 破坏
exacerbate v. 加剧 uninhabited adj. 无人居住的
fabric n. 结构 unravel v. 瓦解
fallout n. 后果
havoc n. 大破坏
ignorance n. 无知
impose v. 征收
intellectual property n. 知识产权
levy n. 征税

===== 第 36 页 =====

篇目7.What is a woman? Britain’s Supreme Court gives its answer
T 什么是女性？英国最高法院给出答案（选自《经济学人》）he terms “woman”
and “sex” refer to “a biological woman and biological sex”

【“‘女性’与‘性别’指的是‘生物学意义上的女性与生物学意义上的性别1】THAT
MOST divisive of questions, “What is a woman?”, received an answer from the
supreme Court of the United Kingdom on April 16th. In For Women Scotland v The
Scottish Ministers, the court ruled that, for the purposes of the Equality Act, which
covers discrimination in every area of British life including employment, education
and public services, the terms “woman” and “sex” refer to “a biological woman and
biological sex”. Lord Hodge, announcing the ruling, said it had been unanimous.
The ruling also said that the definition of sex under the Equality Act “makes clear
that the concept of sex is binary”. “This is a landmark in the gender debate,” says
Michael Foran, a legal academic at Glasgow University. “In all the sensitive areas
such as sport, prisons, single-sex spaces, this means that woman means biological
woman and sex means biological sex.”

那个最具分歧性的问题——“什么是女性？”——于4 月16 日得到了英国最高法院的答复。在“苏格
兰妇女诉苏格兰大臣案”中，法院裁定，就《平等法案》而言，“女性”和“性别”这两个术语指的是“生
物学上的女性和生物学上的性别”。该法案涵盖了英国生活各个领域的歧视，包括就业、教育和公共服务。
宣布裁决的霍奇勋爵表示，裁决是 unanimous (一致) 的。裁决还指出，《平等法案》下的性别定义 “明
确了性别概念是二元的”。格拉斯哥大学的法学学者迈克尔·福兰表示：“这是性别辩论中的一个 (里程
碑) landmark。在所有敏感领域，如体育、监狱、单性别空间，这意味着女性指生物学上的女性，性别指
生物学上的性别。”

【2】The origins of the case go back to 2018, when the devolved Scottish
government proposed legislation that half the people sitting on the boards of public
companies in Scotland must be women. It initially said that would mean anyone who
identified as a woman. When challenged by For Women Scotland (FWS), an

===== 第 37 页 =====

advocacy group, it changed its guidance to say that the term“woman”could include
trans women (natal males) who hold a“genderrecognition certificate”(GRC). FWS
challenged again and lost, and the case escalated beyond Scotland to the UK Supreme
Court.

该案的起源可追溯到2018 年，当时权力下放的苏格兰政府提议立法，规定苏格兰上市公司董事会中必
须有一半是女性。它最初表示，这将意味着任何自认为是女性的人。在遭到 advocacy (倡导) 团体“苏
格兰妇女”的质疑后，它修改了指南，称“女性”一词可包括持有“性别承认证书”的跨性别女性（生理
男性）。FWS 再次提出质疑但败诉，该案由此 escalated (升级)，从苏格兰上升到英国最高法院。

【3】GRCs came into being with the Gender Recognition Act of 2004. They
allow people of either sex to be permanently, legally recognised as the opposite sex,
if they have been diagnosed with gender dysphoria by two doctors and lived in their
acquired gender for two years. This week’s ruling said that trans women holding a
GRC should not be considered to be women in any of the areas covered by the
Equality Act. “We are thrilled and relieved that women across the UK can now be
assured their rights are protected in law, and their safety and dignity will be protected
and respected,” said Susan Smith of FWS.

GRC 随着2004 年的《性别承认法案》而诞生。它们允许任何生理性别的人，如果被两名医生诊断患有
性别焦虑症并以获得的性别身份生活了两年，就可以永久地 " 合法地被承认为相反性别。本周的裁决指出，
持有GRC 的跨性别女性在《平等法案》涵盖的任何领域都不应被视为女性。FWS 的苏珊·史密斯说：“我
们感到激动和 relieved (宽慰的)，现在全英国的女性可以确信她们的权利受到法律保护，她们的安全和
尊严将得到保护和尊重。”

【4】The conflicts arise because one of the foundational claims of the
trans-rights movement is that trans women are women and trans men are men (though
the Scottish government only claimed that those with a GRC were respectively

===== 第 38 页 =====

women and men). Many trans people say they should be allowed to have access to
services and protection from discrimination in line with their “gender identity” not
their biological sex. “Gender critical” feminist groups, such as FWS, disagree.
Stonewall, a charity that has campaigned for trans rights, says it is deeply concerned
about the“widespread implications”of the ruling. Its chief executive, Simon Blake,
said: “It will be incredibly worrying for the trans community and all of us who
support them.”

冲突的产生是因为跨性别权利运动的基本主张之一是跨性别女性就是女性，跨性别男性就是男性（尽
管苏格兰政府仅声称持有GRC 的人分别是女性和男性）。许多跨性别者表示，他们应该被允许根据其“性
别认同”而非生理性别获得服务和免受歧视的保护。像FWS 这样的“性别批判”女权主义团体则不同意。
为跨性别权利奔走 老呼吁的慈善机构石墙表示，它对该裁决的“广泛 implications (影响)”深感关切。其
首席执行官西蒙·布莱克说：“这对跨性别群体以及所有支持他们的人来说都将非常令人担忧。”

【5】One notable area of dissent has come from lesbians. Three lesbian groups
were among the ntervenors on behalf of FWS. If FWS had lost, it would have become
illegal for women to form clubs or associations of more than 25 members that
excluded trans women (natal males), thus making it illegal for lesbians to do so, too.

一个值得注意的异议领域来自女同性恋者。有三个女同性恋团体是代表FWS 的介入方。如果FWS 败诉，
女性组建排斥跨性别女性（生理男性）的超过25 名成员的俱乐部或协会将成为非法，因此女同性恋者这样
做也将成为非法。

【6】Those who oppose allowing trans women into female-only spaces say
employers have long felt under pressure to let anyone claiming to be trans use
whichever facilities they feel most comfortable with, regardless of whether the person
has a GRC or not. For example, two employment tribunals are under way in which

===== 第 39 页 =====

nurses say the NHS has endorsed a policy allowing trans women without a GRC to
use female staff’s changing rooms.

那些反对允许跨性别女性进入女性专用空间的人士表示，雇主长期感到压力，不得不让任何声称是跨
性别者的人使用他们感觉最舒适的设施，无论此人是否有GRC。例如，目前有两个就业法庭案件正在进行
中，护士们在案件中称，国民医疗服务体系认可了一项允许没有GRC 的跨性别女性使用女性员工更衣室的
政策。

【7】“So many organisations have been trained to operate on the basis of gender
selfidentification,”says Naomi Cunningham of Sex Matters, a gender-critical charity.
The Supreme Court’s ruling “will make it much easier to push back against this de
facto selfID across the board”.

“如此多的组织已被训练成在性别自我认同的基础上运作，”性别批判慈善机构“性别事务”的娜奥
米·坎宁安说。最高法院的裁决“将使全面抵制这种事实上的自我身份认同变得容易得多”。

【8】Other supporters of trans rights have weighed in. The Good Law Project, a
non-profit campaign group, said “this ruling sets a dangerous precedent and erases
trans women from protections. It puts trans rights back 20 years.” That claim was at
odds, however, with the words of Lord Hodge. He reiterated that trans people are
already, and will continue to be, protected from discrimination and harassment by the
Equality Act.

其他跨性别权利支持者也发表了意见。非营利性运动组织“好法律计划”表示，“这一裁决开创了一
个危险的 precedent (先例)，并将跨性别女性从保护中抹去。它使跨性别权利倒退了20 年。”然而，这
一说法与霍奇勋爵的话相悖。他 iterated (重申)，跨性别者已经并将继续受到《平等法案》的保护，
免受歧视和骚扰。

===== 第 40 页 =====

【9】The debates over sex and gender do not look likely to subside. But it is
noticeable that the ruling drew supportive responses from both the Labour
government, which said that “single-sex spaces are protected in law and will always
be protected by this government,” and from Kemi Badenoch, leader of the
opposition Conservative Party. She tweeted:“Saying‘trans women are women’was
never true in fact and now isn’t true in law, either.”

关于生理性别和社会性别的争论看来不太可能平息。但值得注意的是，该裁决获得了工党政府（该政
府表示“单性别空间受法律保护，并将始终受到本政府保护”）以及反对党保守党领袖凯米·巴德诺赫的
支持。她在推特上写道：“说‘跨性别女性就是女性’在事实上从未成立，如今在法律上也不成立。

===== 第 41 页 =====

考研5500 考纲词汇（选自本文）:
advocacy n. 倡导 harassment n. 骚扰
announce v. 宣布 identity n. 身份
binary adj. 二元的 illegal adj. 非法的
biological adj. 生物的 implication n. 影响
campaign v. 发起运动 landmark n. 里程碑
certificate n. 证书 legal adj. 法律的
concept n. 概念 legislation n. 立法
conflict n. 冲突 opposition n. 反对党
critical adj. 批判的 permanently adv. 永久地
debate n. 辩论 precedent n. 先例
definition n. 定义 protection n. 保护
devolved adj. 权力下放的 public service n. 公共服务
dignity n. 尊严 relieved adj. 宽慰的
discrimination n. 歧视 rule v. 裁决
dissent n. 异议 sensitive adj. 敏感的
employment n. 就业 supreme adj. 最高的
escalate v. 升级 tribunal n. 法庭
facility n. 设施 unanimous adj. 一致的
feminist n. 女权主义者
gender n. 性别

===== 第 42 页 =====

篇目8 Zuckerberg on trial: why Meta deserves to win 扎克伯格应诉：Meta 为
何理应胜诉

Social media has plenty of problems. Lack of competition isn’t one of them
社交媒体问题重重，但竞争不足绝非其中之一（选自《经济学人》）
【1】The $23m pied-a -terre that Mark Zuckerberg bought last month in
Washington, DC, is a seven-bathroom testament to Meta’s devotion to lobbying. As
well as donating $1m to Donald Trump’s presidential- inauguration fund and shell ing
out $25m to settle a spurious lawsuit from the president, Meta has MAGAfied its
board, appointing allies such as Dana White and, last week, Dina Powell, who served
in Mr Trump’s first administration (John Elkann, the boss of Exor, which part-owns
The Economist’s parent company, is also adirector). Mr Zuckerberg has dined at
Mar-a-Lago and visited the White House.

马克·扎克伯格上月以2300 万美元在华盛顿特区购置的临时居所（配有七间浴室）， 证明了Meta 对
游说活动的投入。除了向唐纳德·特朗普的总统就职基金捐赠100 万美元，并花费 2500 万美元了结与这位
总统的一场无谓诉讼外，Meta 还将其董事会“MAGA 化”，任命了达纳·怀特等盟友，上周又任命了曾在特
朗普首届政府任职的迪娜·鲍威尔（部分控股《经济学人》母公司的Exor 老板约翰·埃尔康也是董事）。
扎克伯格先生已在海湖庄园用餐并访问了白宫。

【2】The reason for this frantic schmoozing is a blockbuster antitrust trial that
began on April 14th and which threatens to break up Mr Zuckerberg’s $1.3trn empire.
The stake s are high and the politics are low. But what matters is that the claim the
Federal Trade Commission (FTC), America’s competition watchdog, has brought
against Meta deserves to fail.

如此疯狂套近乎的原因是一场重磅反 反垒断审判，该审判于4 月14 日开始，可能威胁到扎克伯格1.3
万亿美元的帝国。此案利害关系重大，且政治意味浓厚。但关键在于，美国竞争监管机构联邦贸易委员会
对Meta 提起的诉讼理应失败。

===== 第 43 页 =====

【3】The complaint, launched in 2020, alleges that Meta (then called Facebook)
illegally maintained its social-media monopoly when it bought Instagram and
WhatsApp, two smaller rival s, several years earlier. Though the FTC approved both
transaction s at the time, it now wants them undone. To establish that Meta is a
monopolist, the trustbusters havedescribed its market as “personal social
networking”. This is a tendentiously narrow definition that excludes obvious rivals
such as X, LinkedIn, Pinterest and Reddit. On this view, the world’s biggest
social-media company competes only with Snapchat, a much smaller rival, and MeWe,
an even tinier one.

该诉状于2020 年提起， 指控 Meta（当时名为Facebook）在几年前收购两个较小竞争对手 Instagram
和WhatsApp 时，非法维持了其社交媒体垄断地位。尽管FTC 当时批准了这两笔交易，但现在却想撤销它们。
为确立Meta 的垄断者地位，反垄断官员将其市场定义为“个人社交网络”。这是一个有倾向性的狭义定义，
排除了X、LinkedIn、Pinterest 和Reddit 等明显竞争对手。照此观点，这家全球最大的社交媒体公司仅
与规模小得多的竞争对手Snapchat，以及更小的MeWe 竞争。

【4】The FTC’s argument was never compelling, and in the years since the
complaint was filed it has only become less persuasive. Despite the FTC’s claim that
network effects create insurmountable barriers to entry, the past few years have
seen a rush of successful socialmedia startups. Some have fizzled, like Clubhouse
and BeReal. Others remain small, such as Bluesky and Mr Trump’s own Truth Social.
But the arrival of TikTok, which has attracted more than 1.5bn users worldwide,
makes a mockery of the idea that the market is closed.

FTC 的论点从来就不具说服大，自诉状提交以来这几年更是变得越发缺乏说服。尽管FTC 声称网络
效应创造了丁逾越 不可的进入壁垒，但过去几年却涌现了大量成功的社交媒体初创。有些已偃旗息鼓，
如Clubhouse 和BeReal。其他规模仍小，如Bluesky 和特朗普自家的Truth Social。但TikTok 的出现吸
引了全球超过15 亿用户，这无疑嘲笑了市场封闭的说法。

===== 第 44 页 =====

【5】 competition has intensified in other ways, too. Thanks partly to TikTok’
s innovation, social apps now revolve around video. That has pitched Meta into
competition with giants such as YouTube, whose “Shorts” feature mimics the
TikTok-like vertical clips that also play on Facebook and Instagram. Moreover,
once-distinct media markets are converging. Spotify, originally a music service, is
pushing into video; Roblox, a gaming platform, acts as a social network for many
teenagers. As competition spreads across previously separate categories, the FTC’s
narrow market definition looks ever sillier.

竞争也以其他方式加剧。部分得益于TikTok 的创新，社交应用现在围绕视频展开。这使Meta 与YouTube
等巨头展开竞争，后者的“Shorts”功能模仿了同样在Facebook 和Instagram 上播放的类TikTok 垂直短
视频。此外，曾经泾渭分明的媒体市场正在融合。最初作为音乐服务的Spotify 正进军视频领域；游戏平
台Roblox 对许多青少年而言充当着社交网络。随着竞争蔓延到先前独立的类别，FTC 狭隘的市场定义显得
愈发愚蠢。

【6】What of the experience for consumers, whose interests the FTC exists to
defend? The regulator argues that a shortage of competition has created worse
products, citing an overload of ads on Meta’s apps. But the idea that consumers have
been poorly served by the social-media market in recent years is hard to square with
the hours of extra time they are devoting to it. By one estimate nearly half of all
mobile screen time worldwide is spent browsing social media (and about a quarter of
all waking hours are spent on phones).

那么用户体验又如何呢？FTC 的存在本是为了维护用户利益。该监管机构认为竞争不足导致了更差的
产品，并列举了Meta 应用上广告过多。但认为社交媒体市场近年来服务不佳的观点，很难与用户投入其中
的额外时间相吻合。据估计，全球近一半的移动设备屏幕时间用于浏览社交媒体（并且大约四分之一的清
醒时间花在手机上）。

===== 第 45 页 =====

【7】Ask a parent if they have any concerns about social media and they will
chew your ear off, but they are unlikely to complain that their child is short of social
apps. Indeed, consumers’ behaviour suggests that—for better or worse—they have
seldom encountered a market they find so captivating.

若问家长是否对社交媒体有任何担忧，他们会滔滔不绝，但他们不太可能抱怨自己的孩子缺少社交应
用。事实上，消费者的行为表明——无论好坏——他们很少遇到一个让他们觉得如此迷人的市场。

【8】The shaky case has come to trial at an appropriately farcical moment. As
the FTC sets out its claim that Meta faces insufficient competition, the firm’s main
rival, TikTok, hangs in legal limbo. Distribution of the Chinese-owned app in
America has been outlawed since the beginning of Mr Trump’s presidency. But he
has ordered the authorities to ignore the ban—for 75 days, then 150—while he
negotiates the app’s sale to an American buyer. No one has the faintest idea whether
the app will still be around by the time Meta’s trial is over. How can any serious
judgment on competition in social media be made without knowing the fate of TikTok,
its greatest disruptive force?

这个站不住脚的案件在一个恰逢其时的荒诞时刻开庭审理。就在FTC 提出Meta 面临竞争不足的指控时，
该公司的主要竞争对手 TikTok 却处于法律悬置状态。这款中国拥有的应用在美国的分发自特朗普总统任期
开始时就被取缔。但他已命令当局无视该禁令——先是75 天，然后是150 天——同时他就将该应用出售给
美国买家进行谈判。无人知晓等到Meta 的审判结束时，这款应用是否还能存在。在不了解其最大颠覆性
量 TikTok 命运的情况下，如何能对社交媒体竞争做出任何严肃的判断？

【9】What began as a thin case has become progressively weaker, and now looks
downright absurd. The court should waste no time in swiping it up and away.

这个从一开始就证据薄弱的案件已变得越来越弱，现在看起来完全荒谬。法院应立即将其驳回。

===== 第 46 页 =====

考研5500 考纲词汇（选自本文）:
absurd adj. 荒谬的 farcical adj. 荒谬的
administration n. 政府 frantic adj. 疯狂的
allege v. 指控 fund n. 基金
ally n. 盟友 inauguration n. 就职
antitrust adj. 反垄断的 innovation n. 创新
appropriate adj. 恰当的 insurmountable adj. 不可逾越的
barrier n. 壁垒 intensify v. 加剧
blockbuster n. 重磅炸弹 lawsuit n. 诉讼
captivate v. 迷住 lobby v. 游说
category n. 类别 mimic v. 模仿
cite v. 引用 mockery n. 嘲弄
compel v. 强迫 monopoly n. 垄断
competition n. 竞争 monopolist n. 垄断者
converge v. 融合 overload n. 过载
devotion n. 奉献 persuasive adj. 有说服力的
disruptive adj. 颠覆性的 progressively adv. 逐渐地
empire n. 帝国 regulator n. 监管机构
entry n. 进入 rival n. 竞争对手
estate n. 财产 schmooze v. 闲聊

===== 第 47 页 =====

shell v. 支付
spurious adj. 虚假的
stake n. 利害关系
startup n. 初创企业
testament n. 证明
threaten v. 威胁
tinier adj. 更小的
transaction n. 交易
trial n. 审判
undone adj. 已撤销的
vertical adj. 垂直的
watchdog n. 监管机构

===== 第 48 页 =====

篇目9.Don’t overlook the many benefits of plastics
If they are a problem, it is because they are badly managed
【1】Few people are more synonymous with wonder at the natural world than
Sir David Attenborough, a nonagenarian television presenter. In recent years, Sir
David has been campaigning fervently for an end to the plastic that his film crews
find scattered across the planet. “The plastic in our oceans ought never to have got
there in the first place,” he said in one interview. “Much of it perhaps ought not to
have even been manufactured at all.” The first statement is reasonable, but the
second is not—for it disregards the extraordinary benefits that plastics, and the
industry which produces them, have provided both to humans and to the environment.

很少有人比九十多岁的电视节目主持人大卫·爱登堡爵士更能代表对自然世界的惊叹。近年来，大卫
爵士一直热情倡导终止塑料污染，他的摄制组在全球各地都发现了塑料碎片。"我们海洋中的塑料根本不应
该出现在那里，"他在一次采访中说道。"其中许多塑料或许根本就不该被生产出来。"第一个说法是合理的，
但第二个并不合理——因为它忽视了塑料及其生产行业为人类和环境带来的非凡益处。

【2】Although the drawbacks of the world’s reliance on plastics are all too
apparent, the benefits they provide, in the form of reducing waste and cost, are all
too easily overlooked. Plastics have made possible a bewildering range of new
materials that can replicate the properties of existing ones, and can do things they
cannot, while being lighter, more durable, and cheaper and easier to manufacture.
These materials have become vital in everything from building to carmaking to
consumer electronics.

尽管世界对塑料依赖的弊端十分明显，但它们以减少浪费和成本形式带来的好处却太容易被忽视。塑
料使得一系列令人眼花缭乱的新材料成为可能，这些材料能够复制现有材料的特性，并能做到它们无法做
到的事情，同时更轻、更耐用、更便宜且更易于制造。这些材料在从建筑到汽车制造再到消费电子产品的
各个领域都变得关重要。

===== 第 49 页 =====

【3】Take food as an example. Plastic packaging prevents perishable foodstuffs
from spoiling, making possible global trade in meat, fish, fruit and vegetables. It
enables essentials like rice, cooking oil and powdered milk to be stored and
distributed safely and cheaply. A one-litre plastic bottle weighs 5% as much as a
glass one; plastic packaging thus reduces shipping costs and emissions.

以食物为例。塑料包装防止易腐食品变质，使肉类、鱼类、水果和蔬菜的全球贸易成为可能。它使大
米、食用油和奶粉等需品能够安全、廉价地储存和分销。一个一升的塑料瓶重量仅相当于玻璃瓶的5%；
因此塑料包装降低了运输成本和排放。

【4】Plastics have also eased the world’s reliance on older materials, and on the
living beings from which many of them came. There are perhaps 10m pianos in the
world. If all their white keys were made of ivory, how many elephants would remain?

塑料也减轻了世界对旧材料以及许多旧材料来源生物的依赖。全世界大概有一千万架钢琴。如果所有
白键都是象牙制成的，那还能剩下多少大象？

【5】Just as the benefits of plastics are often seer, however, so are some
potential harms. The visible blight of discarded waste strewn across otherwise
lovely landscapes, often to the detriment of wildlife, used to be one of the principal
charges against plastics. Now there is growing concern about what happens when they
break up into microscopic fragments invisible to the naked eye. In the past decade
such “microplastics” have been found in food chains, in human brains and even in
the apparently pristine snow of Antarctica.

然而，正如塑料的好处常常不为人所见，一些潜在的危害也是如此。 废弃塑料垃圾散落在原本美丽的
风景中，通常对野生动物有害，这种可见的破坏曾是反对塑料的主要指控之一。现在，人们越来越担心它
们破碎成肉眼看不见的微小 小碎后会怎样。过去十年中，在食物链、人类大脑甚至看似原始的南极雪中都
发现了这种"微塑料"。

===== 第 50 页 =====

【6】Being detectable does not make something dangerous. It can be mere
testimony to the acuity of the instruments in use. But history shows that ubiquitous
industrial materials can do unintended unexpected and widespread harm that is
recognised much too late: think of lead-based paint and leaded petrol, which cause
health and developmental problems. The ubiquity of microplastics means the harm
they might do deserves serious, well-supported and co-ordinated research; some
worrying findings make that a matter of urgency. If there are harms, swift action will
be needed on diagnosis and remediation.

能被检测到并不意味某物是危险的。这可能仅仅证明了所用仪器的精密性。但历史表明普遍存在的
工业材料可能造成无意、意外和广泛的危害，而人们认识到这一点时为时已晚：想想含铅油漆和含铅汽油，
它们会导致健康和发展问题。微塑料的普遍存在意味着它们可能造成的危害值得进行严肃、有充分支持和
协调的研究；一些令人担忧的发现使这成为紧迫事项。如果存在危害，就需要在诊断和修复方面迅速采取
行动。

【7】To deal with the scourge of pollution the best approach is not to ban
plastics, but to manage them more carefully. Better recycling technologies, now under
development, are one part of the answer. The proportion of plastics which end up
being recycled has doubled in the past two decades, but it is still only 9%. This is not
because people do not care about the planet. It is because recycling is harder and more
costly than most people realise.

应对污染祸害的最佳方法不是禁止塑料，而是更仔细地管理它们。目前正在开发的更好的回收技术是
解决方案的一部分。过去二十年中，最终被回收的塑料比例翻了一番，但仍只有9%。这不是因为人们不关
心地球。而是因为回收比大多数人意识到的更困难、成本更高。

【8】Technical difficulties and the onerous sorting required mean that recycled
plastic is almost always more expensive than the virgin stuff, which makes it hard to

===== 第 51 页 =====

set up a virtuously circular market. One result is that many rich countries export their
waste for “recycling” in poorer countries which are not equipped to deal with their
own often luminous plasticwaste problems, let alone anyone else’s. The UN
estimates that 59% of all plastic waste ends up being sorted by roughly 20m informal
workers worldwide, frequently in terrible conditions.

技术困难和所需的繁重分拣意味着再生塑料几乎总是比原生塑料更昂贵，这使得很难建立一个良性循
环的市场。一个结果是，许多富裕国家将废物出口到较贫穷国家进行"回收"，而这些国家没有能力处理自
己往往数量 庞大的塑料废物问题，更不用说别人的了。联合国估计，全球59%的塑料废物最终由大约2000
万非正规工人分拣，工作条件通常很恶劣。

【9】Greater use should therefore be made of landfill. When properly managed
and well monitored, this is far less environmentally ruinous than often portrayed,
and can be simpler and more effective than poorly executed recycling. It also
sidesteps the risk that plastics sent across the world for recycling will be dumped or
burned. Incinerators, which can both produce energy and allow the resulting carbon
to be captured, are a useful option too, though they are also unpopular. Fortnum, a
Finnish company, has found a way to turn the hydrocarbons released from waste
incineration back into plastic feedstock. Such innovation should be built on. When it
comes to plastics, the benefits are very much greater than most people will
allow—and so is the potential for managing the costs.

因此，应该更多地利用填埋方式。在妥善管理和监控的情况下，这种方式对环境的破坏远没有通常描
绘的那么严重，而且可能比执行不善的回收更简单、更有效。它也规避了运往全球各地回收的塑料被倾倒
或焚烧的风险。 烧炉既能产生能量，又能捕获产生的碳，也是一个有用的选择，尽管它们也不受欢迎。
芬兰公司Fortnum 找到了一种方法，可以将废物焚烧释放的碳氢 合物转化回塑料原料。这种创新应该被
继承发扬。就塑料而言，其好处远比大多数人愿意承认的要大——管理其成本的潜力也是如此。

===== 第 52 页 =====

考研5500 考纲词汇（选自本文） ivory n. 象牙
unseen adj. 未被看见的
synonymous adj. 同义的
blight n. 破坏因素
nonagenarian n. 九十多岁的人
discarded v. 丢弃
campaigning v. 开展运动
strewn v. 撒满
fervently adv. 热情地
detriment n. 损害
scattered v. 散落
microscopic adj. 微小的
manufactured v. 制造
fragments n. 碎片
disregards v. 忽视
pristine adj. 原始的
extraordinary adj. 非凡的
detectable adj. 可检测的
drawbacks n. 缺点
testimony n. 证明
apparent adj. 明显的
acuity n. 敏锐
overlooked v. 忽视
ubiquitous adj. 普遍存在的
bewildering adj. 令人眼花缭乱的
unintended adj. 非故意的
replicate v. 复制
co-ordinated adj. 协调的
durable adj. 耐用的
urgency n. 紧迫性
vital adj. 至关重要的
swift adj. 迅速的
perishable adj. 易腐烂的
remediation n. 补救
essentials n. 必需品
scourge n. 祸害
distributed v. 分发
approach n. 方法
emissions n. 排放物
proportion n. 比例
reliance n. 依赖

===== 第 53 页 =====

onerous adj. 繁重的
virgin adj. 原始的
virtuously adv. 正直地
voluminous adj. 体积大的
estimates v. 估计
landfill n. 垃圾填埋
monitored v. 监控
ruinous adj. 破坏性的
sidesteps v. 回避
incinerators n. 焚烧炉
hydrocarbons n. 碳氢化合物
feedstock n. 原料

===== 第 54 页 =====

篇目10 Chinese officials are encouraging office workers not to work so hard 中
国官员正鼓励职场人士不要过度劳累

More free time means more consumption, they hope 他们希望，更多空闲时间能
带来更多消费（选自《经济学人》）

【1】For much of the Western world, the two-day weekend is sacrosanct. In
China, the right to rest for two days each week is not a given. Many students say
goodbye to the concept when they start high school. Overtime is sometimes
compulsory for white-collar workers, especially in the go-go world of tech. In 2019
Jack Ma, founder of Alibaba, an internet giant, famously defended the “996” work
culture—9am to 9pm, six days a week—as “a huge blessing”.

对大多数西方国家而言，双休日是不可侵犯的。但在中国，每周休息两天的权利并非理所当然。许多
学生从高中开始就告别了这一概念。白领加班有时是强制性的，尤其是在快节奏的科技行业。2019 年，互
联网巨头阿里巴巴的创始人马云曾为"996"工作制（即早9 点到晚9 点，每周工作6 天）辩护，称其为"巨
大的福报"，此言广为人知。

【2】But in recent months a new phenomenon has emerged, as big firms across
China have begun to make employees leave the office earlier. Midea, an appliance
giant, has launched a campaign against unnecessary overtime, sending workers home
by 6:20pm each day. Its boss said: “More than 95% of overtime is performative.”
Managers at DJI, a drone maker, known for long hours, have started clearing the
office at 9pm (the deadline drew criticism online for still being too late).

但近几个月来出现了新现象，中国各地的大公司开始让员工提早下班。家电巨头美的发起了一场反对
不必要加班的运动，要求员工每天下午6 点20 分前下班。其老板表示："超过95%的加班是表演性的。"以
长时间工作闻名的无人机巨头大疆的管理人员已开始要求在晚上9 点清空办公室（这一截止时间在网上被
批评为仍然太晚）。

===== 第 55 页 =====

【3】These new policies align with two of the Chinese state’s current priorities.
One is to try to curb a phenomenon known as neijuan—often translated as
“involution”. People use the term to describe a situation in which extra input no
longer yields more output, like running to stand still. The government wants to
prevent this intense, self-harming competition. Perhaps not surprisingly, the new
policy has met plenty of cynicism from involuted workers. One newspaper
summarise d their online snark with the question: “Are the companies that long
enforced brutal overtime now going to lead the fight against involution?” Some point
to Europe’s new ban on products made with forced labour, including “excessive
overtime”, as the motivation for export companies to take action.

这些新政策与中国政府当前的两项优先事项一致。其一是试图遏制被称为" 内卷 "的现象。人们用这个
词来描述额外投入不再产生更多产出的情况，如同原地奔跑。政府希望防止这种激烈的、自我伤害的竞争。
或许不出所料，新政策引来了深陷内卷的工人们的大量冷嘲热讽。一家报纸用一个问题总结了他们在网上
的挖苦："那些长期实行残酷加班制度的公司，现在要领导反内卷的斗争了吗？"有人指出，欧洲新出台的
禁止使用强迫劳动（包括" 过度加班"）制造产品的禁令，是出口公司采取行动的动力。

【4】The second priority is to give people more time off in order to help bring
about the muchneeded switch in the economy away from exports and infrastructure
towards consumption. In March the government presented a new “special action
plan” to increase domestic demand, vowing to deal with “prominent pain points
such as the prevalence of overtime culture”, and to protect “rest and vacation rights
and interests”. It increased the number of public holidays this year by two days.
Getting people to eat out and spend money is difficult if they are stuck at their desk.
第二个优先事项是让人们有更多休息时间，以帮助实现迫切需要的经济转型，从依赖出口和基础设施
投资转向消费驱动。今年3 月，政府提出了一项新的"特别行动计划"以扩大内需，誓言要解决"加班文化盛

===== 第 56 页 =====

行等突出痛点"，并保障"休息休假权益"。今年公共假日增加了两天。如果人们被困在办公桌前，就很难外
出就餐和消费。

【5】Many people are receptive to the moves. Deaths from suspected overwork
at companies such as Pinduoduo and ByteDance have spark ed anger. Tech workers
refer to themselves as niuma, or beasts of burden. Though the nation’s top court in
2021 declared the “996” schedule illegal, enforce ment of the ruling has been lax.
Some firms still have a “big-week, small week” system, whereby employees
alternate five- and six-day work weeks.

许多人对这些举措表示接受。拼多多和字节跳动等公司疑似过劳死的案例引发了愤怒。科技行业工作
者自称为“牛马”。尽管国家最高法院在2021 年已宣布“996”工作制违法，但对此裁定的执行一直很松
懈。一些公司仍实行"大小周"制度， 即员工隔周工作五天和六天交替进行。

【6】Many of these trends are visible in Haidian, home to Beijing’s Silicon
Valley. Ms Tang is leaving her work at a cloud-computing company at around 9:30pm.
She used to think working late was normal, but now says her younger colleagues are
less tolerant of it. In a tough economy, however, they may have little choice. “When
the economy is good, you can talk about employees’ happiness,” she says. She
recently moved to her new job because it is less relentless, and she often gets off by
7pm.

这些趋势在北京“硅谷”所在地海淀区尤为明显。唐女士晚上9 点半左右才离开她所在的云计算公司。
她过去认为工作到很晚是常态，但现在表示她的年轻同事对此容忍度较低。然而，在经济不景气的情况下，
他们可能别无选择。经济好的时候，你可以谈论员工的幸福感，她说。她最近换了一份新工作，因为强度
没那么大，经常晚上7 点就能下班。

===== 第 57 页 =====

【7】Ms Li has just finished a late dinner at McDonald’s, across the street from
a stream of shuttle buses dropping workers at the subway station. After burning out at
an e-commerce firm, she too was seeking balance. The 36-year-old took a six-month
break, but is back at an internet firm. Of her 15 days of annual leave last year, she
took six. She says friends her age don’t want to subject their children to the same rat
race, if they even have them. “It’s not just the financial pressure. You don’t see the
point of having kids, because you may not be living a very good life yourself.”

李女士刚在麦当劳吃完迟来的晚餐，马路对面是一辆辆将员工送到地铁站的班车。在一家电商公司精
疲力尽之后，她也开始寻求平衡。这位36 岁的员工休息了六个月，但现在又回到了一家互联网公司。去年
她本有15 天年假，但她只休了6 天。她说，她这个年纪的朋友们即使生孩子，也不希望让孩子经历同样的
激烈竞争。"这不仅仅是经济压力。你自己可能都过得不太好，所以看不到生孩子的意义。"

【8】Life for workers in the service economy is even tougher: they get only a
few days off each month, if any. During a smoke break, a chef at a noodle restaurant
in the Sanlitun shopping area said the owner gives the option to take days off at lower
pay, but most of his colleagues opt for no rest. Getting Chinese people to stop
working hard will not be easy.

服务业劳动者的生活更为艰难：他们每月只能休息几天（如果有的话）。在三里屯购物区一家面馆，
一位厨师在抽烟休息时说，老板允许他们选择少拿工资来休假，但他的大多数同事都选择不休息。让中国
人停止努力工作并非易事。

===== 第 58 页 =====

考研英语考纲词汇（选自本文）
alternate v. 交替 trend n. 趋势
annual adj. 年度的 whereby adv. 凭借
compulsory adj. 强制性的
concept n. 概念
consumption n. 消费
criticism n. 批评
curb v. 抑制
cynicism n. 冷嘲热讽
domestic adj. 国内的
emerge v. 出现
enforce v. 强制执行
excessive adj. 过度的
infrastructure n. 基础设施
intense adj. 强烈的
involution n. 内卷
motivation n. 动机
phenomenon n. 现象
policy n. 政策
prevalence n. 盛行
priority n. 优先事项
receptive adj. 乐于接受的
sacrosanct adj. 神圣不可侵犯的
spark v. 引发
summarise v. 总结
switch n. 转变
tolerant adj. 容忍的
tough adj. 艰难的

===== 第 59 页 =====

篇目11.Reading diaries aloud：The art of over-sharing 大声朗读日记：过度分享
的艺术

who are personal journals written for?私人日记的受众是谁？
【1】The tales embrace the mundane and the seismic, from being dumped by a
boyfriend before the school prom to the sudden death of a parent. The tone ranges
from cheesy to heartbreaking. The storytellers are “journal influencers”, mostly young
women reading their teenage diaries to audiences online.

这些故事中乏味无趣，也有惊天云，从学校舞会前被男友甩到父母骤然离世。既有俗套情节，又
有心碎情感。故事讲述者便是“日记网红博主”，大部分是年轻女性。他们在网络上向观众展示自己青少
年时期的日记。

【2】Some videos are mingled with other content, merging pre-teen dreams with
make-up tips; others are simple shrines to past selves. One influencer,Carrie Walker,
draws 1.2m views for a half-hour read on YouTube; the shorter content on TikTok’s
#diarytok tag has reached 54m. And sharing secrets presents commercial
opportunity: selling notebooks and pens on Amazon; auctioning copies of diaries on
eBay.

一些视频中还含有其他内容，将孩童时的梦想与化妆建议相结合，其他视频的内容则相对简单，纯粹
是展示过去自我的圣地。一位名叫凯利·沃克（Carrie Walker）的网红在YouTube 上传的半小时朗读视频
吸引了120 万次观看；TikTok 上时长较短、带有“#diarytok”标签的小视频观看量达5400 万。分享私密
信息也带来了商机：在亚马逊上售卖笔记本和钢笔，在eBay 上拍卖日记复制本。

【3】Many people think about writing a diary,especially at New Year. Some start.
Some even keep itup. But why write, and for whom? Whether a novice facing a blank
page or a seasoned scribbler with years of good meals and gossip in irregular
notebooks, almost any diarist has asked themselves that question.

===== 第 60 页 =====

很多人都想过写日记，尤其是在新年伊始。有些人动笔了，有些人甚至坚持了下来、但是为何写日记，
又为谁写日记？无论是一个面对空白纸张的新手，还是一个在不规则的笔记本里记录了多年美食和八卦的
老手，几乎每位记作者都曾问过自己这个问题。

【4】Sally Bayley of the University of Oxford, author of “The Private Life of
the Diary”, regards sharing on social media as the antithesis of diary-keeping.The
journal is“an attempt to be honest with yourself”.It is“an internal territory, which
you are mapping onto the page”, inseparable from privacy Even Sylvia Plath, a
“theatrical individual”, Dr Bayley notes, wrote a diary in order to “generate a
voice in private”.

牛津大学学者、《日记的隐私生活》一书作者萨利·贝利（Sally Bayley）将社交媒体上的分享视为
记日记的对立面。日记“试图能诚实直面自己”，是“一个人把内心领域投射到纸页上”，与隐私密不可
分。贝利博士表示，就连拥有“戏剧”之称的美国诗人西尔维娅·普拉斯（Sylvia Plath）写日记也
是为了“在私下里生成一种声音”。

【5】Yet diaries have also long been shared, if more discreetly than on TikTok.
Keeping a journal rose in popularity in the 19th century, especially among women.
According to Cynthia Huff, an academic specialist in Victorian culture, diary-sharing
then was“extremely common”.

不过分享日记的做法由来已久，只是相比于TikTok 来说更加审慎。记日记在19 世纪开始风靡，尤其
是在女性群体当中。研究维多利亚时期文化的专家学者辛西娅·哈夫（Cynthia Huff）表示，当时的日记
分享“极其普遍”。

【6】diaries were read aloud, sent to friends or left open for visitors to peruse.
“That distinction between public and private really doesn’t hold at all,” says

===== 第 61 页 =====

Professor Huff. Some diaries served practical uses,sharing advice on
self-improvement, pregnancy or childbirth. British women in the colonies often sent
diaries back home. They were “creating an extended family through these diaries”
and fostering an oceanspanning sense of Englishness.

作者把日记大声朗读、发送给朋友或者摊开来让访者细读。“公开与私密的区别实际上压根不存在。”
哈夫教授说道。一些日记为实际需要服务，分享自我完善、 怀孕或分娩等建议。在民地的英国女性通常
会把日记寄回家里。她们“通过这些日记打造了大家庭”并培养出一种横跨大洋的英国情感。

【7】Many journal videos also create a sense of community. They share stories
of isolation: of suffering homophobia, struggles with body image or early romantic
obsessions. They poke fun at the distorted expectations of youth and the
disappointments of adulthood, with the ear of sympathetic strangers.

许多日记视频也催生了一些圈子。他们向外分享孤独的故事：因同性恋而遭受歧视、身体形象焦虑或
者早期恋爱时的困扰。他们调侃年轻时扭曲的期望以及成年时的各种失望，与陌生人共鸣，向陌生人诉苦。

【8】Some diary-sharers go further. At Queer Diary, a series of events across
Britain begun in 2020 by Beth Watson, a performer, LGBTQ adults read their old
diaries to a live audience. The drama, confusion and mayhem of teenage life are
performed to a sympathetic crowd. The celebration, Ms Watson says, is as important
as the reflection.

有些日记分享者则更进一步。2020 年，演员贝茨·沃森（Beth Watson）在全英举行“酷儿日记”（Queer
Diary）系列巡演，来自LGBTQ 群体的成年人通过直播向观众朗读他们的旧时日记。青少年生活中的兴奋、
困惑、 混乱向共情的观众们表演。这种庆贺活动，沃森女士表示，与反思同等重要。

===== 第 62 页 =====

【9】The symbiosis of secrecy and celebration was perhaps best understood by
Anaïs Nin, a 20th-century French-born American whose diary was an unapologetic
exercise in self-creation. “I am in my Journal, and in my Journal only, nowhere else.
Nothing shows on the outside. Perhaps I do not exist except as a fantastic character in
this story.”

或许阿奈斯·宁（Anaïs Nin）最能理解私密与庆贺的共生关系，她是20 世纪法裔美国人，她的日记
是一种无需辩解的自我创造。“我就在我的日记中，也只在我的日记中，别无他处。不会向外界流露。或
许我除了在日记中扮演精彩的角色外，并不存在。”

【10】Nin’s mix of fantasy and truth included an illegal abortion, extramarital
affairs and, most notoriously, an incestuous relationship with her father. Her
assertions of confidentiality—“you won’t say anything, will you”; “only my
Journal knows it”—treat the reader as the sole listener.

阿奈斯·宁在日记中将奇幻与真实相结合，其中包括一次非法随胎、几次婚外 香外情、以及最为息名昭著
的一段与父亲的乱伦关系。“你不会说出任何事，不是吗”，“只有我的日记本知道”……她关于保密性
的论断将读者视为唯一的倾听者。

【11】And yet, of course, Nin published her journal.Its scandalous content won
her fame that her fiction had not. Her confessional texts penetrated the thin veil
between public and private. The diaries are a masterclass in broadcast secrecy, a
megaphoned whisper.

然而，当然，阿奈斯·宁公开了她的日记。她的名气更多来自于日记里的丑闻内容，而非她的小说。
她的坦白文章刺破了公私之间的薄纱。这些日记是把秘密广播出来的讲习班，是通过麦克风讲出来的窃窃
私语。

===== 第 63 页 =====

【12】“We write to taste life twice,” Nin wrote, “inthe moment and in
retrospection.” She spent her last years reading her diaries to worshipping crowds.
Like today’s influencers, she knew that retrospection tastes much sweeter in
company.

“我们写日记，两次品鉴生活，”阿奈斯·宁写道，“当下以及回忆。”她在生命晚年把自己的日记
读给崇拜她的人群。就像今天的网红博主一样，她明白这种回想在陪伴下滋味更甜

===== 第 64 页 =====

外刊词汇（考研英语考纲词汇）
abortion n. 流产
academic adj. 学术的
antithesis n. 对立面
assertion n. 断言
auction v. 拍卖
cheesy adj. 俗气的
childbirth n. 分娩
colonial adj. 殖民地的
commercial adj. 商业的
community n. 社区
confessional adj. 忏悔的
confidentiality n. 保密性
confusion n. 混乱
diarist n. 日记作者
discreetly adv. 谨慎地
distinction n. 区别
distorted adj. 扭曲的
drama n. 戏剧
embrace v. 包含
extended adj. 延伸的

===== 第 65 页 =====

extramarital adj. 婚外的
fantastic adj. 极好的
fantasy n. 幻想
foster v. 培养
generate v. 产生
gossip n. 闲话
homophobia n. 恐同
incestuous adj. 乱伦的
individual n. 个人
inseparable adj. 不可分割的
internal adj. 内部的
irregular adj. 不规则的
isolation n. 隔离
masterclass n. 大师课
mayhem n. 混乱
megaphone v. 用扩音器
mingle v. 混合
mundane adj. 平凡的
notoriously adv. 臭名昭著地
novice n. 新手
obsession n. 痴迷
opportunity n. 机会

===== 第 66 页 =====

penetrate v. 穿透
peruse v. 细读
poke v. 戳
popularity n. 流行
practical adj. 实际的
pregnancy n. 怀孕
privacy n. 隐私
reflection n. 反思
retrospection n. 回顾
scandalous adj. 丑闻的
scribbler n. 书写者
secrecy n. 保密
seismic adj. 地震的
shrine n. 圣地
specialist n. 专家
symbiosis n. 共生关系
sympathetic adj. 同情的
theatrical adj. 戏剧性的
unapologetic adj. 不道歉的
veil n. 面纱
worship v. 崇拜

===== 第 67 页 =====

篇目12.Catalonia：Get them while they're young 加泰罗尼亚：趁还小，赶紧教
The simmering row over Spanish-language teaching in Catalan schools
加泰罗尼亚地区学校西班牙语教学纷争正在酝酿

【1】When the PISA worldwide educational comparisons came out late in 2023,
most countries fell to wondering how to do better. In Catalonia the results were seen
through the lenses of nationalism and language—as everything is. Spain had lost
ground since the last time the tests were done, in 2018. But students in Catalonia lost
even more, and native Spanishspeakers did worse than Catalan-speakers to boot—a
failing critics were quick to pin on language policy.

2023 年末，PISA 测试（学生能力国际评估项目）全球比较 教育结果出炉，多数国家开始思考如何在这
方面做得更好。在加泰罗尼亚，人们透过民族主和语言的滤镜来看待这份结果，就像看待其他一切一样。
自2018 年上一次测试开展以来，西班牙的排名越发靠后，母语为西班牙语的学生表现得甚至不如说加泰罗
尼亚语的学生。而后，批评者们立即将头指向语言政策。

【2】In the 1980s Catalonia began a transition to teaching all subjects in Catalan,
except Spanish. Several years ago the region’s top court ruled that at least 25% of
classes must be given in Spanish. The regional government, led by separatists,then
passed a law allowing individual school heads to raise or lower the level of teaching
in Spanish, according to need.

上世纪80 年代，加泰罗尼亚实行转型，所有科目改用加泰罗尼亚语而非西班牙语进行教学。几年前，
该地区终审法院裁定，至少25%的课程必须使用西班牙语进行教学。由离主义领导的地区政府随后通
过一项法律，允许学校校长根据需要提升或降低西班牙语教学层次的城市

【3】A new report for the Association for Bilingual Schools in Catalonia (AEB),
which campaigns for more Spanish, said that hardly any schools have changed their
published policies. And so they petitioned the European Parliament to investigate

===== 第 68 页 =====

what they call a violation of pupils’ basic rights. The week before Christmas a
delegation made a fact-finding trip. The Catalan education secretary says they came
having already made up their minds that the region’s language policy harms pupils’
performance. She blames child poverty, which is above the European average.

加泰罗尼亚双语学校联盟（AEB）致力于倡导更多的西班牙语教学，其发布的新报告显示几乎没有学校
对已公布的政策做出改变。因此，他们向欧洲议会请愿，要求调查他们所谓的侵犯学生基本权利的行为。
圣诞节的前一周，欧洲议会代表团进行了实地调研。加泰罗尼亚教育厅厅长表示，他们在来访时已经对该
地区的语言政策对学生表现的影响有了先入之见。她将此归咎于高于欧洲平均水平的孩童贫困。

【4】In the Escola San Jaume, a primary school in El Prat de Llobregat, a heavily
Spanish-speaking town near Barcelona, all signs are in Catalan. Only about 10% of
the pupils are native Catalan-speakers, says the director Arturo Ramírez. A pupil who
asks a question in Spanish is gently encouraged to try in Catalan, but children may
speak to each other in Spanish in class—as they overwhelmingly do in breaks.
Everyone eventually learns both languages, Mr Ramírez says.

小镇埃普拉特约布里加（El Prat de Llobregat）位于巴塞罗那附近，居民多说西班牙语。镇上的埃
斯科拉·森·罗姆小学里所有的标识都是用加泰罗尼亚语写的。 校长阿图罗·拉米雷斯（Arturo Ramírez）
表示，校内只有10%的学生母语为加泰罗尼亚语。当学生用西班牙语提问时，老师会温柔地鼓励他/她试着
用加泰罗尼亚语，但是学生在课上能相互用西班牙语交流，正如他们在课后大量使用西班牙语一样。拉米
雷斯先生表示， 最终每个人都能学会这两种语言。

【5】Indeed, that is the stated goal of both his school and that of the AEB: fluency
in Spanish and Catalan. despite the neverending dispute across Spain, it is one
largely achieved inCatalonia, where over 80% of the population speaks and reads

===== 第 69 页 =====

Catalan, and everyone barring some immigrants speaks Spanish too. Of the happy
charges on his playground, Mr Ramírez says “There is no problem here. The
problem is outside the building.”
事实上，这是他的学校以及双语学校联盟的预期目标—— 熟练掌握西班牙语和加泰罗尼亚语。尽管西
班牙国内对此存在着永无休止的纷争，但加泰罗尼亚却大体实现了这一目标，80%的人能用加泰罗尼亚语
进行交流和阅读， 除了一些移民外，每个人都会说西班牙语。看到学生在操场上开心地玩耍，拉米雷斯
校长说：“校内没有问题，问题出在校外。

===== 第 70 页 =====

外刊词汇（考研英语考纲词汇）
bilingual adj. 双语的 policy n. 政策
blame v. 责备 poverty n. 贫困
campaign v. 发起运动 regional adj. 地区的
charge n. 被照管的人 rule v. 裁定
comparison n. 比较 secretary n. 部长
delegation n. 代表团 separatist n. 分离主义者
director n. 负责人 stated adj. 声明的
dispute n. 争议 transition n. 过渡
educational adj. 教育的 violation n. 违反
eventually adv. 最终
failing n. 失败
fluency n. 流利
immigrant n. 移民
individual adj. 个别的
lens n. 透镜
nationalism n. 民族主义
overwhelmingly adv. 压倒性地
performance n. 表现
petition v. 请求
pin v. 归咎

===== 第 71 页 =====

篇目13.Artificial intelligence: DeepSeek,and ye shall find 人工智能：深求必有
所得

China’s hottest AI model has panicked investors. But it is a cause for optimism
for the world at large 中国最火爆的AI 模型令投资者恐慌，但对全球而言却是一个值得乐
观的理由

【1】The market reaction, when it came, was brutal. On January 27th, as
investors realised just how good DeepSeek’s “v3” and “R1” models were, they wiped
around a trillion dollars off the market capitalisation of America’s listed tech firms.
Nvidia, a chipmaker and the chief shovel-seller of the artificial-intelligence (AI) gold
rush, saw its value fall by $600bn. Yet even if the Chinese model-maker’s new
leases rattled investors in a handful of firms, they should be a cause for optimism
for the world at large. DeepSeek shows how competition and innovation will make
AI cheaper and therefore more useful.

市场的反应来临时十分残酷。1 月27 日，当投资者意识到DeepSeek 的"v3"和"R1"模型有多么出色时，
他们从美国上市科技公司的总市值中抹去了约万亿美元。作为芯片制造商和人工智能淘金热的主要"卖铲者
"，英伟达的市值蒸发了6000 亿美元。然而，即使这家中国模型制造商的新发布扰乱了少数公司的投资者，
对全世界而言，这都应是一个乐观的理由。DeepSeek 展示了竞争与创新将如何降低AI 成本，从而使其更
有用。

【2】DeepSeek’s models are practically as good as those made by Google and
OpenAI—and have been produced at a fraction of the cost. Barred by American
export controls from using cutting-edge chips, the Chinese firm undertook an
efficiency drive, even reprogramming the chips it used to train the model to eke out
every drop of power. The cost of building an AI model that can stand toe-to-toe with
the best has plummeted. Within days, DeepSeek’s chatbot was the most downloaded
app on the iPhone.

===== 第 72 页 =====

DeepSeek 的模型几乎与谷歌和OpenAI 的模型一样好，而成本仅为一小部分。由于美国管制而无
法使月芯片，这家中国公司发起了效率提升行动，甚至重新编程其用于训练模型的芯片以竭力榨取每
一分算力。构建一个能与顶尖模型媲美的AI 模型的成本已暴跌。几天之内，DeepSeek 的聊天机器人就成
为iPhone 上载量最高的应用。

【3】The contrast with America’s approach could not be starker. Sam Altman,
the boss of OpenAI, has spent years telling investors—and America’s new
president—that vast sums of money and computing power are needed to stay at the
forefront of AI. Investors have accordingly been betting that a handful of firms stand
to reap vast monopoly -like rents. Yet if fast followers such as DeepSeek can eat
away at that lead for a fraction of the cost, then those profits are at risk.

与美国方法的对比再鲜明不过。OpenAI 老板萨姆·奥特曼多年来一直告诉投资者和美国新总统，需要
巨额资金和计算能力才能保持在AI 的前沿。投资者因此一直押注少数公司将获得类似垄断的额租金。然
而，如果像DeepSeek 这样的快速随者能以一小部分成本侵蚀这种领先优势，那么这些利润就面临风险。

【4】Nvidia became the most valuable listed company in the world thanks to a
widespread belief that building the best AI required paying through the nose for its
best chips (on which its profit margin s are reported to exceed 90%). No wonder
DeepSeek’s success led to a stockmarket drubbing for the chipmaker on January 27th.
Others in the data-centre business are also licking their wounds, from Siemens
Energy (which would have built the turbines to power the build-out) to Cameco
(which would have provided the uranium to fuel the reactors to turn the turbines).
Had OpenAI been listed, its stock would surely have taken a tumble as well.

英伟达成为全球最具价值的上市公司，这得益于一种普遍信念，即构建最好的AI 需要为其顶级芯片支
付高昂费用（据报其利润率超过 90%）。难怪DeepSeek 的成功导致这家芯片制造商在1 月27 日遭遇股市

===== 第 73 页 =====

惨跌。数据中心业务的其他公司也在舔伤！，从西门子能源（本可为扩建提供涡轮机）到卡梅科（本可
为应堆提供铀燃料来驱动涡轮机）。如果OpenAI 上市，其股价肯定也会大跌。

【5】Yet there are far more winner than loser from the DeepSeek drama.
Some of them are even within tech. Apple will be cheering that its decision not to
throw billions at building AI capabilities has paid off. It can sit back and pick the
best models from a newly commoditised selection. Smaller labs, including France’s
Mistral and the Emirati TII, will be racing to see if they can adopt the same
improvement s, and try to catch up with their bigger rivals.

然而，DeepSeek 事件中的赢家远多于输家。其中一些甚至在科技行业内部。苹果将欢呼其未投入数十
亿构建AI 能力的决定取得了回报。它可以坐享其成，从新商品化的选项中挑选最佳模型。包括法国Mistral
和阿联酋TII 在内的较小实验室将竞相 1采纳相同的改进，试图追赶更大的 1对手。

【6】Moreover, efficiency gains are unlikely to result in less spending on AI
overall. The Jevons paradox—the observation that greater efficiency can lead to
more, not less, use of an industrial input—will surely come into play. The possible
applications for a language model with computing costs as cheap as DeepSeek’s ($1
per million token s) are vastly more numerous than those for Anthropic’s ($15 per
million tokens). Many uses for cheaper AI are as yet unimagined.

此外， 效率提升不太可能导致AI 总支出减少。杰文斯悖论——即观察到更高的效率可能导致工业投入
的使用增加而非减少——必将发挥作用。对于计算成本低至DeepSeek 水平（每百万令牌 1 美元）的语言模
型，其可能的应用范围远远多 Anthropic（每百万令牌15 美元）的模型。更廉价AI 的许多用途目前尚
无法想象。

【7】Even Nvidia may not suffer too much in the long run. Although its market
clout may be diminished, it will continue to sell chips in vast quantities. Reasoning

===== 第 74 页 =====

models, including DeepSeek’s R1 and OpenAI’s o3, require much more computing
power than conventional large language models to answer questions. Nvidia will be
hoping to supply some of that.

即使英伟达长远来看也可能不会遭受太大损失。尽管其市场影响力可能减弱，它仍将继续大量销售芯
片。包括DeepSeek R1 和OpenAI o3 在内的推理模型，回答问题所需的计算能力远高于传统大语言模型。
英伟达将希望提供部分此类算力。

【8】However, the real winners will be consumer s. For AI to transform society,
it needs to be cheap, ubiquitous and out of the control of any one country or company.
DeepSeek’s success suggests that such a world is imaginable. Take Britain, where Sir
Keir Starmer, the prime minister, has unveiled a plan to use AI to boost productivity.
If he does not need to pay most of the efficiency gains back to Microsoft in usage fees,
his proposal has a better chance of success. When producers’ rents vanish, they
remain in the pockets of users.

然而，真正的赢家将是消费者。要让AI 变革社会，它需要廉价、 无处 不在且不受任何单一国家或公司
控制。DeepSeek 的成功表明这样的世界是可以想象的。以英国为例，首相基尔·斯塔默爵士公布了一项利
用AI 提升生产的计划。如果他无需将大部分效率收益以使用费形式返还给微软，他的提案成功几率就更
高。当生产者的租金消失，它们会留在用户的口袋里。

【9】Some have begun to suggest that DeepSeek’s improvements don’t count
because they are a consequence of “distilling” American models’ intelligence into its
own software. Even if that were so, r1 remains a ground-breaking innovation. The
ease with which DeepSeek found greater efficiency will spur competition. It
suggests many more such gains are still to be discovered.

有人开始认为DeepSeek 的改进不算数，因为它们是美国模型智能被" 提炼 "到其软件中的结果。即使如
此，R1 仍然是突破性的创新。DeepSeek 如此轻松地找到更高效率将刺激竞。这表明还有更多此类收益有
待发现。

===== 第 75 页 =====

【10】For two years the biggest American AI labs have vied to make ever more
marginal improvement s in the quality of their models, rather than models that are
cheap, fast and good. DeepSeek shows there is a better way.

两年来，美国最大的AI 实验室一直在竞相追求模型质量上日益边际的改进，而非打造廉价、快速且优
秀的模型。DeepSeek 表明存在更好的方式。

===== 第 76 页 =====

考研英语考纲词汇(选自本文） efficiency n. 效率
export n. 出口
adopt v. 采用 follower n. 追随者
application n. 应用 forefront n. 前沿
approach n. 方法 fraction n. 一部分
bar v. 禁止 ground-breaking adj. 开创性的
belief n. 信念 imaginable adj. 可想象的
brutal adj. 残酷的 improvement n. 改进
capability n. 能力 industrial adj. 工业的
capitalisation n. 资本化 input n. 投入
commoditise v. 商品化 innovation n. 创新
competition n. 竞争 intelligence n. 智能
computing n. 计算 investor n. 投资者
consequence n. 结果 lab n. 实验室
consumer n. 消费者 margin n. 利润
contrast n. 对比 marginal adj. 边际的
control n. 控制 monopoly n. 垄断
conventional adj. 传统的 numerous adj. 众多的
cutting-edge adj. 尖端的 observation n. 观察
diminish v. 减少 optimism n. 乐观
distil v. 提炼 paradox n. 悖论
drubbing n. 打击 pocket n. 口袋

===== 第 77 页 =====

practically adv. 几乎 starker adj. 更鲜明的
productivity n. 生产力 suffer v. 遭受
profit n. 利润 supply v. 供应
programme v. 编程 token n. 令牌
proposal n. 提议 transform v. 改变
quality n. 质量 trillion n. 万亿
quantity n. 数量 tumble n. 跌倒
reaction n. 反应 ubiquitous adj. 无处不在的
reasoning n. 推理 unveil v. 揭开
release n. 发布 valuable adj. 有价值的
rent n. 租金 vanish v. 消失
rival n. 对手 vast adj. 巨大的
selection n. 选择 vie v. 竞争
spur v. 刺激 winner n. 赢家

===== 第 78 页 =====

篇目14.For media companies, news is becoming a toxic asset
Paramount’s dilemma exemplifies a broader problem 选自《经济学人》
【1】The latest episode of “60 Minutes”, broadcast on CBS on April 27th,
began with items on medical-research funding, Islamist terrorism and Japan’s
population crisis. But its biggest story was delivered in the final 60 seconds. “Our
parent company, Paramount, is trying to complete a merger,” the correspondent,
Scott Pelley, explained to the show’s 7m or so viewers. “The Trump administration
must approve it. Paramount began to supervise our content in new ways.”

4 月27 日CBS 电视台播出的《60 分钟》最新集节目，开场内容涉及医疗研究经费、伊斯兰恐怖主义和
日本人口危机。但最重大的新闻是在最后60 秒发布的。"我们的母公司派拉蒙正试图完成一项并购，" 记者
斯科特·佩利向约700 万观众解释说，"特朗普政府必须批准此事。派拉蒙已开始以新方式监督我们的内容。
"

【2】The on-air allegation of editorial meddling exposes the rift that has
opened between the famous news brand and its Hollywood owner. It also exemplifies
a broader problem for media firms. As American politics has become polarised and,
with Mr Trump’s return, vindictive, news organisations that were once seen as crown
jewels in their owners’ portfolios are increasingly viewed as liabilities.

节目中关于编辑干 干预的指控暴露了这个著名新闻品牌与其好莱坞东家之间的裂痕，也例证了媒体公司
面临的更广泛问题。随着美国政治日益两极分，加之特朗普回归后的复性倾向，曾被视为所有者投资
组合中瑰宝的新闻机构，正日益被视作负债。

【3】Paramount, a century-old film and TV company that has struggled in the
streaming era, agreed last year to be acquired by Skydance Media, a film company

===== 第 79 页 =====

run by David Ellison, a tech heir. That deal has hit a problem in the form of a lawsuit
from Mr Trump, who says that “60 Minutes” misleading ly edited an interview last
year with his opponent, Kamala Harris. The claim is paper-thin. But many at
Paramount believe that unless the company admits fault, the government will block
its life-saving merger with Skydance.

派拉蒙这家百年影视公司在流媒体时代举步维艰，去年同意被科技业继承人戴维·埃里森经营的电影
公司Skydance Media 收购。这笔交易因特朗普提起的诉讼而受阻，他声称《60 分钟》去年对其对手卡玛
拉·哈里斯的采访进行了导性剪辑。该指控站不住脚，但派拉蒙内部许多人认为，除非公司承认过错，
否则政府将阻止其与Skydance 的救命并购。

【4】That fear is all too plausible. The deal requires a nod from the Federal
Communications Commission, a formerly easygoing regulator which has grown
teeth under the new administration. Its Trump-appointed boss, Brendan Carr, has
argued that the agency’s power to block mergers on public-interest grounds covers
matters as tenuous as a firm’s diversity policies. Paramount is negotiating with Mr
Carr and, in parallel, with Mr Trump’s lawyers over the “60 Minutes” case.

这种担忧非常合理。该交易需要联邦通信委员会批准，这个曾经随和的监管机构在新政府领导下已锋
芒毕露。由特朗普任命的主管布伦丹·卡尔认为，该机构以公共利益为由阻止并购的权力，可延伸至诸如
公司多样性政策等薄弱环节。派拉蒙正在与卡尔谈判，同时并行地与特朗普的律师就《60 分钟》事件进行
交涉。

【5】It is not the only media firm to have become politically entangled by its
news output. In Mr Trump’s first term, antitrust authorities tried (but failed) to stop
AT&T’s acquisition of Time Warner, which at the time owned CNN, a persistent
critic of the president. Last year Disney’s ABC News paid Mr Trump $15m to settle a

===== 第 80 页 =====

defamation claim. Before his re-election Mr Trump argued that Comcast, a cable
giant, should be investigated for treason over the “one-sided and vicious” output of
its NBC News and MSNBC channels. Mr Carr has launched a probe into its diversity
policies.

这并非唯一因新闻产出而卷入政治纠缠的媒体公司。特朗普首任期内， 反垄断当局曾试图（但未成功）
阻止AT&T 收购当时拥有总统持续批评者CNN 的时代华纳。去年迪士尼的ABC 新闻向特朗普支付1500 万美
元了结诽谤索赔。特朗普在再次当选前主张，应调查有线电视巨头康卡斯特的叛国行为，因其NBC 新闻和
MSNBC 频道发布"片面恶毒"内容。卡尔已对其多样性政策启动调查。

【6】None of this has encouraged new media companies to add news to their
output. Netflix, the all-conquering streamer, has marched into every genre, from live
comedy to sport, but drawn the line at news. Apple TV+ ended its deal with a satirist,
Jon Stewart, in 2023 after his political material became uncomfortable. Amazon
produced an election-night show last year, but the only political content on its slate
since then has been a $40m documentary about the first lady, Melania Trump.

这一切都未鼓励新媒体公司在产出中添加新闻。所向披靡的流媒体网飞已进军从直播喜剧到体育等所
有类型，但划定了新闻底线。Apple TV+于2023 年终止了与讽刺作乔恩·斯图尔特的合作，因他的政治
内容令人不适。亚马逊去年制作了选举之夜节目，但此后其节目表上唯一政治内容是一部关于第一夫人梅
拉尼娅·特朗普的4000 万美元纪录片。

【7】What of the older media empires that already have legendary news brands?
Some appear to be readying them for sale, as part of a broader separation of their
streaming and so-called linear -TV assets. In November Comcast said it would spin
off its cable-TV interests, including MSNBC. In December Warner Bros Discovery
restructured to separate streaming from its linear assets, including CNN. Disney’s
boss, Bob Iger, has mused that linear networks like ABC “may not be core to Disney”,

===== 第 81 页 =====

though he later rowed back. rumours swirl that Fox News might be sold, given
Rupert Murdoch’s failure so far to win control of the family trust from his children.

那些已拥有传奇新闻品牌的传统媒体帝国又如何？有些似乎正为其寻找买家，作为其流媒体与所谓线
性电视资产更广泛剥离的一部分。11 月康卡斯特表示将分拆其有线电视业务（包括MSNBC）。12 月华纳兄
弟探索公司重组，将流媒体与包括CNN 在内的线性资产分离。迪士尼老板鲍勃·艾格曾沉思称，像ABC 这
样的线性网络"可能非迪士尼核心"，尽管后来改口。 传闻流传称福克斯新闻可能被出售，因鲁珀特·默多
克迄今未能从子女手中赢得家族信托控制权。

【8】Even if media firms shed their news divisions, it is no guarantee of escape
from Mr Trump’s attention. The White House recently suggested to Warner Bros that
the president’s son, Donald junior, might like a hunting show on the Discovery
Channel, according to New York magazine. Mr Ellison, Paramount’s would-be
acquirer, may wonder what he is getting into.

即便媒体公司剥离新闻部门，也能保证能摆脱特朗普的关注。据《纽约》杂志报道，白宫近期向华
纳兄弟建议，总统之子小唐纳德或许喜欢在探索频道上主持狩猎节目。派拉蒙的潜在收购者埃里森先生，
或许会疑惑自己将卷入怎样的局面。

===== 第 82 页 =====

外刊词汇（考研英语考纲词汇） parallel adv. 并行地
acquisition n. persistent adj. 持续的
收购
administration n. plausible adj. 合理的
政府
admit v. polarise v. 两极分化
承认
allegation n. portfolio n. 投资组合
指控
antitrust adj. probe n. 调查
反垄断的
asset n. regulator n. 监管机构
资产
authority n. restructure v. 重组
当局
broadcast v. rift n. 裂痕
播放
correspondent n. rumour n. 传闻
记者
crown n. satirist n. 讽刺作家
王冠
defamation n. separation n. 分离
诽谤
deliver v. shed v. 摆脱
发布
documentary n. slate n. 名单
纪录片
diversity n. stream v. 流播
多样性
editorial adj. struggle v. 挣扎
编辑的
empire n. supervise v. 监督
帝国
encourage v. swirl v. 流传
鼓励
entangle v. tenuous adj. 薄弱的
纠缠
episode n. treason n. 叛国罪
集
exemplify v. vindictive adj. 报复性的
例证
expose v. 暴露

fault n. 过错
genre n. 类型
guarantee n. 保证
jewel n. 宝石
lawsuit n. 诉讼
legendary adj. 传奇的
liability n. 负债
linear adj. 线性的
meddle v. 干预
merger n. 合并
misleadingly adv. 误导地
negotiate v. 谈判
opponent n. 对手

===== 第 83 页 =====

篇目15.We need to rethink the Endangered Species Act 我们需要反思《濒危物
种法案》

To maintain biodiversity, give Americans an incentive to protect it.选自《科学美
国人》要维护生物多样性，就应给予美国人保护它的动力。
【1】The Trump administration’s attempt to weaken the Endangered Species
Act is easy to criticize. This month, it proposed a rule that would limit what
constitutes “harm” under the law to only direct actions against wildlife, such as
hunting, wounding or trapping. Destroying their habitats would no longer count.

特朗普政府试图削弱《濒危物种法案》的做法很容易遭到批评。本月，它提议修订法规，将法律意义
上的"伤害 " 限定为仅针对野生动物的直接行为，如捕猎、伤害或诱捕。破坏其栖息地将不再计入伤害范畴。

【2】Anyone who’s ever seen roadkill littering U.S. highways should understand
the flaw in this logic: Species can thrive only when they have space to live free from
dangers imposed by humankind.

任何曾在美国高速公路上见过动物尸体散落路边的人都应明白这一逻辑的缺陷：物种只有在拥有免受
人类强加危险的生存空间时才能繁荣。

【3】It is not enough to simply defend the status quo, however. An honest
assessment of the Endangered Species Act would conclude that, alongside its
strengths, it has many weaknesses. As scientists warn that the world is entering a
period of mass extinction, lawmakers would be wise to rethink federal conservation
strategies. This means reforming the act to better incentivize citizens to protect the
country’s precious biodiversity.

===== 第 84 页 =====

然而，仅仅维护现状是不够的。对《濒危物种法案》的客观评估将得出结论：尽管有其优势，该法案
也存在许多缺陷。在科学家警告世界正进入大规模灭绝时期之际，立法者明智之举是重新思考联邦保护策
略。这意味着改革该法案以更好地激励公民保护国家珍贵的生物多样性。

【4】Since the law was enacted in 1973, the number of species listed as
threatened or endangered has exploded to almost 1,700. This number is something of
a political Rorschach test: Environmentalists celebrate the fact that, of those listed,
only a small number of species have gone extinct. Critics of the law say that the tiny
number that have been delisted shows the law is failing in its mission to actually
recover species.

自该法于1973 年颁布以来，被列为受威胁或濒危的物种数量已激增至近1700 种。这一数字堪称政治
罗夏测试： 不保主欣喜于列入名单的物种中仅有少数灭绝；法律批评者则认为， 除名物种数量极少表
明该法未能实现其恢复物种的使命。

【5】Both views are valid. Environmentalists are correct that the act’s power to
halt projects that could damage ecosystems has rescued from the brink many iconic
species, including the bald eagle and the manatee. The same is true of less
charismatic species that are essential to the world’s intricate food chains. With
insect, bird and fish populations all declining, this is a poor time to gut habitat
protections.

两种观点都成立。环保主义者正确指出，该法案制止可能破坏生态 态系项目的权力，已将许多标志性
物种（包括秃鹰和海牛）从灭绝边缘拯救回来。这对世界复杂食物链中不可但魅力较少的物种同样适
用。在昆虫、鸟类和鱼类数量均下降之际， 削弱栖息地保护绝非良策。

===== 第 85 页 =====

【6】But the scale of the threats to biodiversity— including climate change,
invasive species and habitat loss— makes it essential to expand federal conservation
strategy beyond punitive measures. The act’s regulatory structure is so slow and
bureaucratic, it can take years to list a species as threatened or endangered. The U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service, the primary agency tasked with enforcing the law, has a
backlog of hundreds of petitions to list species and has long been starved of
resources. Any reform must start with providing the agency the funding and staffing it
needs.

但生物多样性面临威胁的规模——包括气候变化、 入侵物种和栖息地丧失——使得必须将联邦保护策
略扩展到恶罚性措施之外。该法案的监管结构过于缓慢官僚，将物种列为受威胁或濒危可能耗时数年。主
要负责执行该法的美国鱼类及野生动物管理局， 积压了数百份物种列入请愿，长期缺乏资源。任何改革都
必须从为其提供所需资金和人员开始。

【7】But changes must go deeper. An estimated three-quarters of species listed
under the law reside on private land, and protecting them comes at a real cost to
landowners. One study in California found that habitat protections for the red-legged
frog caused land values to fall 48 percent. For the Bay checkerspot butterfly, they fell
78 percent. This creates a disincentive for people to cooperate with conservation
efforts and has even led people to actively destroy habitats to avoid rest on
their property.

但改革必须更深入。 估计该法所列物种的四分之三栖息于私人土地，保护它们会给土地所有者带来实
际成本。加州一项研究发现，对红腿蛙的栖息地保护导致土地价值下降48%。对贝湾棋盘蝶的保护则导致
下降78%。这抑制了人们与保护工作合作的意愿，甚至导致人们主动破坏栖息地以避免其财产受到限制。

【8】Why not use those same economic forces for good? The government could,
for instance, turn protected species into assets by giving landowners financial
incentives to assist in conservation efforts. This is something the Agriculture

===== 第 86 页 =====

Department has been doing for years with success. It has paid farmers and ranchers,
for example, to maintain soil health and waterways. The same could be done for
private landowners whose properties are home to endangered species.

何不利用同样的经济力量造福？例如，政府可通过向土地所有者提供财政激励协助保护工作，将受保
护物种转化为资产。农业部多年来成功采用此法，例如向农民和牧场主支付费用以维持土壤健康和水道。
对拥有濒危物种的私人土地所有者亦可采取相同做法。

【9】Costa Rica started such a program in 1997, and it is credited with helping
to reverse deforestation there. Today, forest covers more than 50 percent of the
country, up from a little over 20 percent in the 1980s. Imagine what could be
accomplished d if the United States adopt ed a similar strategy for reversing the loss of
species.

哥斯达黎加于1997 年启动此类项目， 被认有助于扭转该国森林砍仁。如今森林覆盖率达50%以上，
高于1980 年代的略超20%。想象若美国采用类似策略实现物种流失逆转，将取得何等成就。

【10】Congress also should consider reforming the Endangered Species Act’s
incentive structure. The original intent of the law was to treat “endangered” and
“threatened” species differently, with greater restrictions for the former. But in 1978,
the Fish and Wildlife Service eliminated that distinction, removing the promise of
regulatory relief if states, tribes or private actors managed to rescue vulnerable
species from endangerment. Lawmakers could change this back.

国会还应考虑改革《濒危物种法案》的激励结构。该法的最初 **** 意图是区别对待"濒危"和"受威胁"
物种，对前者限制更严。但1978 年，鱼类及野生动物管理局取消了此区分，移除了若各州、 部落或私人行
为者成功拯救脆弱物种免于濒危则提供监管减免的承诺。立法者可扭转此改动。

===== 第 87 页 =====

【11】It has also become difficult to delist a species even after it has met its
recovery goal, due to threats of litigation. Congress could fix this by adding a
“cool-off” period for lawsuits, during which recovered species would be monitored
by state officials.

由于诉讼威胁，即使物种达到恢复目标也难以除名。国会可通过增设诉讼"冷却期"解决此问题，在此
期间由州官员监测已恢复物种。

【12】Environmentalists might object to these changes, arguing that the current
administration or the states cannot be trusted to maintain species once restrictions
have been lifted. If this is true, then lawmakers should fund rewards for states and
tribes that successfully carry out conservation plans. The goal, in short, should be to
harness self-interest as the engine for protecting wildlife.

环保主义者可能反对这些改变，主张限制解除后现政府或各州不足以信任来维持物种。若如此，立法
者应资助成功执行保护计划的各州和部落。简言之，目标应是利用 身利益作为保护野生动力的引擎。

【13】President Donald Trump and his party are unlikely to embrace these
reforms. But Congress in recent years has shown that there is strong bipartisan
appetite to strengthen protections for endangered species. The best way forward is to
embrace market-oriented strategies.

特朗普总统及其党派不太可能接受这些改革。但国会近年已展现加强濒危物种保护的强烈两党意愿。
最佳前进之道是采纳市场导向策略。

===== 第 88 页 =====

外刊词汇（考研英语考纲词汇）
accomplish v. 完成 delist v. 除名
administration n. 政府 disincentive n. 抑制因素
adopt v. 采用 distinction n. 区别
appetite n. 食欲 ecosystem n. 生态系统
asset n. 资产 eliminate v. 消除
assessment n. 评估 enact v. 颁布
assist v. 帮助 endangerment n. 濒危
attempt n. 尝试 enforce v. 执行
backlog n. 积压 environmentalist n. 环保主义者
biodiversity n. 生物多样性 essential adj. 必要的
bipartisan adj. 两党的 estimated adj. 估计的
bureaucratic adj. 官僚的 explode v. 激增
charismatic adj. 有魅力的 extinction n. 灭绝
constitute v. 构成 flaw n. 缺陷
conservation n. 保护 gut v. 削弱
cooperate v. 合作 habitat n. 栖息地
credit v. 归功于 harness v. 利用
critic n. 批评者 iconic adj. 标志性的
criticize v. 批评 incentive n. 激励
deforestation n. 森林砍伐 incentivize v. 激励

===== 第 89 页 =====

intent n. 意图 reform v. 改革
intricate adj. 复杂的 regulatory adj. 监管的
invasive adj. 入侵的 reside v. 居住
litigation n. 诉讼 restriction n. 限制
litter v. 乱扔 reverse v. 扭转
logic n. 逻辑 scale n. 规模
mission n. 使命 self-interest n. 自身利益
monitor v. 监测 starve v. 缺乏
object v. 反对 status quo n. 现状
original adj. 最初的 strategy n. 策略
petition n. 请愿 task v. 分配任务
precious adj. 珍贵的 thrive v. 繁荣
property n. 财产 trap v. 诱捕
propose v. 提议 tribe n. 部落
punitive adj. 惩罚性的 valid adj. 有效的
rancher n. 牧场主 vulnerable adj. 脆弱的

===== 第 90 页 =====

篇目16.The new geography of Paris: Making a splash
How the French hope the Olympics will help reshape the capital
【1】On the site of a former piano factory in the northern Paris suburb of
Saint-Denis, a 40-storey tower is being converted into a gleaming luxury hotel with a
rooftop bar. A short walk away, beside the river Seine, builders are finishing off a vast
new “econeighbourhood” of flats, lined with saplings and lamp posts made from
recycled scaffolding. These will briefly lodge 10,500 athletes during the Paris
Olympic games, which take place from July 26th-August 11th.Across the railway
tracks, on land that formerly housed a gasworks,workers are completing a brandnew
aquatics centre, under a gently curved timber frame of French and Finnish pine.

在巴黎北部圣但尼区，一个废弃的钢琴工厂正在华丽蜕变，成为一座拔地而起的四十层豪华酒店，顶
层酒吧俯瞰城市天际线。步行不远至塞纳河畔，建筑工人们正忙于落成一个宏大的新“生态社区”，社区
内不仅栽植了树苗，还安装了利用回收脚手架制成的灯柱。这些设施将在7 月26 日至8 月11 日举行的巴
黎奥运会期间，为10,500 名运动员提供短期住所。跨过铁路轨道，那块曾经的煤气厂用地上，一座全新的
上运动中心即将竣工，其微弧木架结构采用了法国及芬兰松木。

【2】These developments are part of an attempt by French urban planners to use
the Olympics to revive Seine-Saint-Denis, a banlieue (suburb) that hugs the north and
eastern edges of Paris. During the games many sporting events will take place in the
historic city centre, including beach volleyball under the Eiffel Tower. But some of
the most prestigious, such as athletics, will be held at the Stade de France in
SeineSaint-Denis. More than this, the Olympics is part of a big rethink of greater Paris,
and its transport system,which could in time radically change the capital’s geography.

法国城市规划者正借助奥运会这一契机，试图重振环绕巴黎北部和东部边缘的塞纳-圣但尼郊区。在盛
大的奥运期间，众多体育盛事将在这座历史名城的中心舞台上演，埃菲尔铁塔下的沙滩排球场地只是其中
之一。但更多标志性的赛事，如田径，将在塞纳-圣但尼的法兰西体育场举行。此外，奥运会的举办不仅仅
是体育盛事，更是大巴黎及其交通系统全面革新的一部分，这场变革将逐渐重塑首都巴黎的地理格局

===== 第 91 页 =====

【3】As in many of Europe’s old cities, the historic centre of Paris, with its tree-lined
avenues and cycle lanes, is fringed by poverty, high-rise blocks and former industrial
land. Paris, delineated by its forbidding périphérique, an eight-lane ring-road, is
particularly cut off. In the capital’s cobbled centre,urban planners enthuse about the
“15-minute city”, in which work, cafés and cinemas are but a short walk away. In the
banlieues, it often takes longer than that just to reach the station—if there is one.

如同欧洲众多老城一般，巴黎的历史中心拥有绿树成荫的大道和自行车道，同样也边缘着贫困地区、
高楼大厦和废弃的工业用地。巴黎以其人望而生 而生畏的八车道环城公路而与外界隔离。在这座首都的鹅卵
石铺砌的中心，城市规划师们热切憧憬 “15 分钟城市”的理念，力求让工作、咖啡馆和电影院等都在步行
可及的范围之内。然而，在较远的郊区，即便是到达车站（假设那里有车站），也常常需要超过15 分钟。

【4】Fully 1.7m people of different tongues and faiths crowd into
Seine-Saint-Denis, where tower blocks were built in the 1960s and 1970s partly to
house industrial workers recruited in North Africa, and their families. Its poverty rate
is 28%, nearly twice that in Paris.Almost a quarter of families are headed by a single
parent. At the age of ten, says Quentin Gesell of the Métropole du Grand Paris, an

administrative body, half the children in SeineSaint Denis today do not know how to
swim.

塞纳-圣但尼郊区汇聚了170 万来自不同文化和信仰背景的居民，其高层住宅多建于20 世纪60 至70
年代，初衷是为了安置从北非引进的工业劳工及其家庭。这一地区的贫困率高达28%，是巴黎的近两倍。
此外，接近四分之一的家庭由单亲家长抚养大，巴黎都市圈行政机构的昆廷·盖塞尔（Quentin Gesell）
指出，目前塞纳-圣但尼地区的儿童中，有半数十岁的孩子尚未学会游泳。

【5】The various greater Paris authorities now hope that the Olympics can help turn
this area’s fortunes,and reputation, around. The sheer scale of investment, much of
which will not be complete until the end of the decade, is eye-watering. Under a plan

===== 第 92 页 =====

first hatched in 2007, tunnels are still being dug to create a giant loop of 200km of
new driverless Metro lines and 68 new stations, known as the Grand Paris Express.
When finished, it will double the existing Metro network. Crucially, instead of
carrying people from the banlieues only in and out of the centre, it will also link the
outskirts to each other and the city's air ports, all at a cost of some €42bn($45bn).

大巴黎地区的众多管理机构现寄望于奥运会能够彻底改变这一地区的命运及其声誉。这项投资的绝对
规模巨大，其多数项目预计将于本十年末才完工，投资金额令人瞠目结舌。根据2007 年制定的规划，工程
团队正持续挖掘隧道，旨在打造一条包含200 公里新型无人驾驶地铁线路及68 个新车站的巨型环线，名为
大巴黎快线。一旦完工，该项目将使现有的地铁网络容量翻一番。更为关键的是，这一网络不仅促进郊区
与市中心的交通输送，还将连接各郊区和城市机场，总投资高达420 亿欧元（约450 亿美元）。

【6】The idea, says Marie Barsacq, in charge of Olympics legacy -planning, is that the
games leave behind facilities and transport, as well as creating jobs and boosting skills.
Seine-Saint-Denis, which today has the fewest swimming pools per head in
France,will be bequeathed not just the new aquatics centre but over a dozen new or
renovated public pools. The staff needed to prepare and serve 13m meals in the
athletes’ village are all being hired locally.

奥运会遗产规划主管玛丽·巴萨克（Marie Barsacq）指出，奥运会的宗旨在于留下长远的设施和交通
改善，同时为当地创造就业机会并提升技能水平。位于法国的塞纳-圣但尼尽管目前人均游泳池数量全国最
少，但未来将不仅获得一座新的水上运动中心，还将拥有超过十多个新建或翻新的公共游泳池。此外，负
责为运动员村准备和供应1300 万份餐食的工作人员将全部从当地招募。

【7】Karim Bouamrane, the Socialist mayor of SaintOuen, sees the Olympics as an
accelerator for reviving the area. Projects already under way have been given a boost;
sporting facilities a facelift. New transport links will make Saint-Ouen one of the

===== 第 93 页 =====

bestconnected hubs in the Paris banlieue. Elon Musk’s Tesla, an electric-car firm, has
picked Saint-Ouen for its new French headquarters. Tony Parker, a FrenchAmerican
former professional basketball player,is opening a new sports academy there.“Before,
when you used to come to SaintOuen it was because you had no choice,says Mr
Bouamrane.“Now it's a choice.”

圣旺的社会主义市长卡里姆·布阿姆兰（Karim Bouamrane）视奥运会为重振该地区的强力驱动器。在
建的项目因此获得了加速推进，体育设施也得到了彻底翻新。全新的交通网络将使圣旺成为巴黎郊区最便
捷的交通枢纽之一。埃隆·马斯克（Elon Musk）旗下的电动车企业特斯拉已选定圣旺作为其法国新总部的
所在地。同时，法美籍前职业篮球运动员托尼·帕克（Tony Parker）在此开设了一家全新的体育学院。“过
去，人们之所以来圣旺，是因为别无选择，”布阿姆兰先生如是说，“而现在，来这里已成为一种新的选
择。”

【8】The lesson from other European cities that have tried similar projects, including
London’s Stratford or Hamburg’s HafenCity, is that better infrastructure can help
revive neighbourhoods and lure private developers. But it takes time, and huge
upfront public investment. Post-covid, developments that rely on office space are
fragile. Extravagant vanity projects can leave a pile of debt and little else. France
certainly loves its grands projets. But Paris is focusing events mostly on existing
facilities, in order to avoid the fate of host cities such as Athens, where the stadiums at
Hellinikon were left abandoned foryears afterwards.

其他欧洲城市，如伦敦的斯特拉特福德或汉堡港城，通过实施类似的项目已经证明，优化基础设施能
够振兴社区并吸引私人开发商的投资。然而，这样的变革需要时间以及大量的公共前期投资。在后疫情时
期，过分依赖办公空间的发展计划显得格外脆弱,过于奢华的虚荣项目可能只会留下沉重的债务负担。法国
虽然钟爱其大型项目，但巴黎却选择主要利用现有设施来举办重大活动，以避免重蹈雅典那样的覆辙，后
者的赫利尼孔体育场在赛后多年仍被荒废。

===== 第 94 页 =====

【9】For places like Saint-Ouen, just beyond the ringroad, the chances of such
investment paying off are probably greater than for those on the outer periphery Yet
the challenge of bridging the gulf between Paris and its banlieues is still
daunting.Advanced sales of flats at the athletes’ village have been slow. Many
Parisians seldom, if ever, venture to the outskirts. Locals feel their address, and the
département code 93, stigmatises them.“We really struggle with the 93," says a
woman outside aboulangerie in Saint-Ouen;“As soon as you mention93, it's no good.”
Mr Bouamrane notes that“etymologically the word banlieue means the 'place of the
banished. It's the place where we don't like you."

对于像圣旺这样位于环城公路紧邻区域的地方，这类投资的收益可能性大于较远的外围地区。尽管如
此， 缩小巴黎及其郊区之间的巨大鸿沟依然是一项艰巨的挑战。运动员村的公寓预售进展缓慢。很多巴黎
人鲜少，甚至从未涉足城市边缘地带。当地居民感受到他们的地址和93 这个区域代码为他们带来了负面的
标签。“我们真的很难与93 这个区域代码共处，”圣旺一家面包店外的一位女士表示，“一旦提到93 区，
形象便大打折扣。”布阿姆兰指出：“从词源学来看，‘郊区’这一词本意为‘被放逐之地’，它是人们
不愿前往的地方。”

【10】Across from the nearly finished Metro station at Saint-Denis Pleyel, a teenage
girl on a street bench thinks that not much will change: “There will still be drugs,
alcohol, traffickers, dealers and all that.” A young man hanging out with friends by
the Turkish kebab shop laughs at the idea that they would use the swimming pool
afterwards: “We’re not children!” Yet others in his group display an unexpected
optimism.“There will be a before and after for Saint-Denis,”declares one: “After the
games, Saint-Denis will be super-beautiful.”

在即将完工的圣但尼普莱耶尔地铁站对面，一位少女坐在街边的长椅上，她认为这里不会有太多变化：
“毒品、酒精、 毒贩这些问题还会继续存在。”一位年轻人在土耳其烤肉店旁与朋友们闲聊，他对于奥运
过后他们会去游泳池的想法嗤之以鼻：“我们又不是小孩子！”然而，他的一些同伴却意外乐观。其中一
位宣称：“对圣但尼来说，奥运会将是一个分水岭。”他补充道：“赛后，圣但尼将焕然一新。”

考纲词汇表

===== 第 95 页 =====

accelerator n. 加速器 infrastructure n. 基础设施
administrative adj. 行政的 lodge v. 容纳
aquatics n. 水上运动 lure v. 吸引
bequeath v. 遗赠 optimism n. 乐观
bridge v. 架桥 outskirt n. 郊区
crucially adv. 关键地 periphery n. 边缘
daunting adj. 令人畏惧的 prestigious adj. 有声望的
delineate v. 描绘 radically adv. 根本地
enthuse v. 热心 recruit v. 招募
etymologically adv. 词源上 recycled adj. 回收的
extravagant adj. 奢侈的 renovate v. 翻新
facelift n. 翻新 revive v. 复兴
fragile adj. 脆弱的 sheer adj. 纯粹的
fringe v. 边缘 stigmatise v. 污名化
gleaming adj. 闪耀的 trafficker n. 贩子
gulf n. 海湾 upfront adj. 预付的
hatch v. 孵化 vanity n. 虚荣
hire v. 雇用 venture v. 冒险
hub n. 中心

===== 第 96 页 =====

篇目17. Machine learning：AI boot camp 机器学习：AI 强化训练营
New techniques are speeding up how large language models are trained 新技术正在加
速大语言模型的训练流程

【1】It is no secret that building a large language model (LLM) requires vast amounts
of data. In conventional training, an LLM is fed mountains of text, and encouraged to
guess each word before it appears. With each prediction, the LLM makes small
adjustments to improve its chances of guessing right.The end result is something that
has a certain statistical “understanding” of what is proper language and what isn’t.

众所周知，搭建一个大型语言模型（LLM）需要海量数据。在传统的训练中，人们为大型语言模型投喂
大量文本，并鼓励其在每个词出现之前先进行猜测。每次预测时，大型语言模型都会进行微调，以提高猜
测的准确性。最终，它会对正确的语言形式形成自己的统计学 “理解”。

【2】But an LLM that has only undergone this socalled " pretraining” is not yet
particularly useful.When asked for a joke to cheer your correspondent up, for
instance, the pretrained model GPT-2 just repeated the question back three times.
When asked who the American president was, it responded: “The answer is no. The
president is not the president.”Clearly, teaching an LLM to do what humans want
requires something more.

但是，只经历了“预训”的大型语言模型还不是特别好用。例如，当要求预训练模型GPT-2 讲一个
笑话来哄对话者开心时，它只会重复三次问题。当被问及美国总统是谁时，它回答说：“答案是否定的。
总统不是总统。”显然，引导一个大型语言模型达到人类想要的效果需要更多的条件。

【3】One way to align such models with users’ expectations is through
reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF). OpenAI, an American

===== 第 97 页 =====

startup introduced this technique in a preprint published in March 2022. It was a
major ingredient in its recipe for ChatGPT, which was released eight months later.

使语言模型符合用户期望的一种方式便是人类发馈强化学习（RLHF）。美国初创公司OpenAI 在2022
年3 月发表的预印本中介绍了这种策略。这也是其八个月后发布的ChatGPT 的重要组成部分。

【4】RLHF normally involves three steps. First,human volunteers are asked to
choose which of two potential LLM responses might better fit a given prompt. This
is then repeated many thousands of times over. This data set is then used to train a
second LLM to, in effect, stand in for the human being. This so-called reward model,
designed to assign higher scores to responses a human would like, and lower scores
to everything else, is then used to train the original LLM. As a final touch, a
machine-learning technique called reinforcement learning tweaks the knobs and
levers of the original LLM to help reinforce the behaviours that earn it a reward.

人类反馈强化学习通常包括三个步骤。首先，大型语言模型会针对一个给定的提示词生成两种潜在答
案。接着，人类志愿者需要从这两种答案中选出更优解。这个过程会重复很多次。然后使用这个数据集来
代替人类训练第二个大型语言模型。这个所谓的奖励机制旨在为人类倾向的答案打更高的分数，而对其他
答案则打较低的分数，以此用它来训练原始的语言模型。最后，一种名为强化学习的机器学习策略会调整
原始大型语言模型的参数，以强化赢得奖励的行为。

【5】This way of doing RLHF is quite involved—using two separate LLMs takes
time and money, and the algorithm used for reinforcement learning is, to quote
Rafael Rafailov at Stanford University, “quite painful”. This has meant that, outside of
OpenAI,Google and their rival, nobody has really exploited its full potential.

===== 第 98 页 =====

采用这种方式进行人类反馈强化学习相当复杂，运用两个独立的大型语言模型不仅耗费时间和资金，
而且正如斯坦福大学的拉斐尔·拉法洛夫（Rafael Rafailov）所描述的，用于强化学习的算法 “非常令人
头疼”。这就导致了除了OpenAI、谷歌及其争者之外，几乎没人能够真正挖掘出其全部的潜能。

【6】It now turns out that the same results can be achieved for a fraction of the effort.
Dr Rafailov and his colleagues, including Archit Sharma and Eric Mitchell,
presented this alternative in December 2023 at Neurips, an AI conference. Their
method, Direct Preference Optimisation (DPO), relies on a satisfying mathematical
trick.

如今，人们发现能够以更少的努力达成相同的成果。2023 年12 月，在人工智能领域的神经信息处理
系统大会 （NeurIPS)上，拉法洛夫博士与他的同事阿奇特·夏尔马（Archit Sharma）和埃里克·米切尔（Eric
Mitchell） 介绍了这一替代方案。他们提出的方法名为直接偏好优化（DPO）， 依赖于一个精妙的数学策
略。

【7】This trick hinges on the observation that for every reward model there is a
specific theoretical LLM that would get full marks, and every LLM likewise has a
theoretical reward model that would give it flying colours. (Just as, more prosaically,
every pair of trousers has a theoretical person on whom they would sit perfectly, and
every person has a theoretical pair of trousers that would best fit.) This observation
that each LLM conceal s an implicit reward model allowed the researchers to tinker
with this model directly. In the old regime, the LLM learned from the reward model,
which learned from the data. Now, the LLM can learn directly from the data.

这个策略的精髓在于， 观察发现，对于任何一个奖励模型， 理论都存在一个特定白能够获得满分的
语言模型。 反之 之亦然，每一个大型语言模型也都有一个在理论上能给予其优异评价的奖励模型。（更通俗
地说，就像每一条裤子理论上都有一个最合适的穿戴者，每个人也都有一条最适合自己的裤子。）每个大

===== 第 99 页 =====

型语言模型内部都隐藏着一个隐含的奖励模型，这一发现使研究者能够直接对模型进行调整。在传统做法
中，大型语言模型是根据奖励模型学习的，而奖励模型则是基于数据学习的。现在，大型语言模型能够直
接从数据中学习。

【8】According to the authors, removing the middleman makes DPO between three
and six times more efficient than RLHF, and capable of better performance at tasks
such as text summarisation. Its ease of use is already allowing smaller companies to
tackle the problem of alignment, says Dr Sharma. A year ago only a few
world-leading models, such as Google’s Gemini and OpenAI’s GPT-4, could afford
to use RLHF. But as of March 12th eight out of the ten highest-ranked LLMs on an
industry leader-board used DPO. Mistral, the French startup seeking to rival OpenAI,
uses it. Meta, a social-media giant, has integrated it into a home-grown LLM.

根据作者们的说法，移除了中间环 环节的直接偏好优化在效率上比人类反馈强化学习高了三到六倍，并
且在文本摘要等任务中表现更加出色。夏尔马博士指出，其便捷性已经使得中小型企业能够着手解决对齐
问题。一年前，只有谷歌的Gemini 和OpenAI 的GPT-4 等少数世界领先的模型才有资源使用人类反馈强化
学习模型。但是截至3 月12 日，行业领袖榜上十大最高排名的大型语言模型中有八个采用了直接偏好优
化模型。寻求与OpenAI 竞争的法国创业公司Mistral 采用了此模型，社交媒体巨头Meta 也已将该模型融
入到了其内部开发的语言模型中。

【9】Further improvements are sure to come. For one thing, the consensus view is
that the big AI labs have made improvements to their proprietary algorithms since
they stopped publishing details in 2022. But the problem of getting an LLM to do
what a human would want and expect is far from done and dusted. After all, even
other humans occasionally struggle.

===== 第 100 页 =====

未来无疑将迎来更多的进步。首先， 为看法是，自2022 年以来，尽管大型AI 实验室不再公布详
细信息，但他们都对其专有集 有算法做出了改善。然而，使大型语言模型达到人类所希望和预期的水平的问题
还远未解决。毕竟，连人类自己有时也会面临挑战。

===== 第 101 页 =====

外刊词汇（考研英语考纲词汇） likewise adv. 同样地
middleman n. 中间人
adjustment n. 调整
observation n. 观察
afford v. 负担得起
occasionally adv. 偶尔地
algorithm n. 算法
performance n. 表现
align v. 使一致
potential adj. 潜在的
alternative n. 替代方案
prediction n. 预测
behaviour n. 行为
preprint n. 预印本
capable adj. 有能力的
pretraining n. 预训练
colleague n. 同事
proprietary adj. 专有的
conceal v. 隐藏
prosaically adv. 平淡无奇地
conference n. 会议
quote v. 引用
consensus n. 共识
recipe n. 配方
conventional adj. 传统的
regime n. 体制
correspondent n. 通讯员
reinforce v. 加强
dust v. 把…弄干净
reinforcement n. 强化
efficient adj. 高效的
release v. 发布
effort n. 努力
rely v. 依靠
expectation n. 期望
reward n. 奖励
exploit v. 利用
rival n. 竞争对手
fraction n. 一部分
satisfying adj. 令人满意的
feedback n. 反馈
separate adj. 分开的
hinge v. 取决于
specific adj. 特定的
implicit adj. 隐含的
startup n. 初创公司
improvement n. 改进
statistical adj. 统计的
ingredient n. 组成部分
struggle v. 努力
integrate v. 整合
summarisation n. 摘要
involve v. 涉及
technique n. 技术
knob n. 旋钮
theoretical adj. 理论上的
lever n. 杠杆

===== 第 102 页 =====

tinker v. 小修补 undergo v. 经历
trick n. 技巧 vast adj. 巨大的
tweak v. 微调 volunteer n. 志愿者

===== 第 103 页 =====

篇目18.Let Consumers Decide Whether to Eat LabGrown Meat 将实验室培育肉
的抉择权交由消费者

Protectionist policies threaten to impede the fledgling sector, which could play a key
role in making the planet a greener one.保护主义政策正阻碍这一方兴未艾的行业，而该行业可能
在建设绿色地球进程中发挥关键作用。
【1】The stretch of Interstate 5 that runs through the heart of California’s sunbaked
Central Valley would be forgettable if not for the stench of manure. Cattle ranches,
some tightly packed with livestock, sprawl to the horizon.As demand for meat
continues to soar, it’s hard to blame these hardworking ranchers for earning a living.
Yet the risk such livestock pose to the climate is undeniable: A single California cattle
ranch emits as much methane annually as 165,000 cars. Statewide, cattle produce
more of the pollutant than almost every oil and gas basin in North America.
若不是弥漫着粪肥的恶臭，横穿加州阳光炙烤的中部山谷腹地的5 号州际公路这段本不值一提。牛群牧场，有些密集地
圈养着牲畜，一直蔓延到地平线。随着肉类需求持续飙升，很难责怪这些辛勤的牧场主以此谋生。然而，此类牲畜对气
候构成的风险不可否认：加州一个养牛场每年排放的甲烷量相当于16.5 万辆汽车。在全州范围内，牛产生的染物几
乎比北美任何一个油气盆地都多。

【2】In the not-too-distant future, well-meaning carnivores could have a much
cleaner alternative: lab-grown meat.

在不久的将来，好意的食者可能会有一个更清洁的选择：实验室培育肉。
【3】Unlike plant-based foods that aim to taste like meat, so-called cultivated
versions— made from biopsied animal cells, in regulated manufacturing sites—
(almost) constitute the real thing. The fledgling industry has its hurdles, not least
winning over a skeptical public and wary politicians. All the same, it shouldn’t be

===== 第 104 页 =====

impeded: The sector exemplifies precisely the kind of ambitious, inventive thinking
needed to confront the world’s climate challenges.

不同于旨在模仿肉类口感的植物基食品，所谓的培育版本——在受监管的制造场所，由活检取得的动物细胞制成——
（几乎） 构成了真肉。这个新兴行业有其障碍，尤其是要赢得持怀疑态度的公众和警惕的政治家的认可。尽管如此，
它不应受到阻碍：该领域恰恰例示了应对全球气候挑战所需的那种雄心勃勃、 富有创造力的思维。

【4】The first lab-grown burger debuted more than a decade ago. It originated from
the stem cells of a dead cow, which were put into a gel and left to grow for three
months. Some 20,000 muscle fibers, stored in separate vial, were combined to form a
3.5-ounce patty that was cooked before an audience in London. The $325,000 burger
garnered mostly positive reviews— though it could have used more fat and, one
reviewer quipped, a pinch of salt.

首个实验室培育的汉堡在十多年前首次亮相。它源自一头死牛的干细胞，这些干细胞被放入凝胶中生长了三个月。大
约2 万条肌肉纤维，储存在单独的小瓶中，被组合成一个3.5 盎司的肉饼，并在伦敦的观众面前烹制。这个价值32.5
万美元的汉堡获得了大多好评——尽管它本可以多加点脂肪，而且一位评论员打趣说，还可以加点盐。

【5】More recent versions are getting cheaper and tastier, if not less clinical. Roughly
175 miles northwest of California’s cattle ranches, tucked in an unmarked Bay Area
facility, Upside Foods can produce thousands of pounds of chicken from a single
thumb-sized vial of cells. The cells are transferred to a flask, rocked in an electronic
“cradle” (they need movement to grow), and placed in a ceiling-high industrial tank
full of nutrient-rich broth. After two to three weeks, the chicken cells are removed
and concentrated, leaving a pancake-batter-like mix that can be shaped into filets and
prepared as conventional meat.

最近的版本正变得更便宜、更美味，即便临床感未减。在加州养牛场西北约175 英里处，隐藏在海湾地区一个无标志的
设施内，Upside Foods 可以从一个拇指大小的小瓶细胞中生产出数千磅鸡肉。细胞被转移到一个烧瓶中，在电子"摇篮

===== 第 105 页 =====

"中摇晃（它们需要运动才能生长），然后被放入一个天花板高的工业罐中，罐内充满营养丰富的培养液。两到三周后，
鸡肉细胞被取出并浓缩，留下类似煎饼面糊的混合物，可以塑造成肉片，并像传统肉类一样进行制备。

【6】Upside is one of more than 170 cultivated meat and seafood startup s globally
that have raised $3.1 billion over the past decade. Conservative recast s suggest the
sector can reduce land use for beef production by 10-fold and carbon emissions
12-fold. With global meat demand expected to rise by more than 50% by 2050, the
potential benefits could be profound.

Upside 是全球170 多家培育肉和海鲜初创企业之一，这些企业在过去十年中已筹集了31 亿美元。 保守预测表明，该
行业可以将牛肉生产的土地利用减少10 倍，碳排放减少12 倍。到2050 年，全球肉类需求预计将增长50%以上，其潜
在益处可能深远。

【7】 Implausible as it may seem: Upside’s chicken is delicious. The company’s
biggest obstacle, rather, is likely to be political. Alabama, Florida and Mississippi
have banned lab-grown meat, purportedly to protect cattle ranchers and farmers.
(Upside sued the state of Florida.) Montana and Wyoming are considering similar
measures. Such prohibitions make little sense. Ranchers won’t be threatened
anytime soon: The sector is projected to meet just half a percentage point of global
demand by 2030. More to the point, some of the biggest industrial food companies are
investing in the industry. A protectionist panic is hardly in order.

尽管听起来可能难以置信：Upside 的鸡肉很美味。然而，该公司最大的障碍很可能在于政治。阿拉巴马州、佛罗里达
州和密西西比州已禁止实验室培育肉， 据称是为了保护养牛场主和农民。（Upside 起诉了佛罗里达州。）蒙大拿州和
怀俄明州正在考虑类似措施。此类禁令毫无意义。牧场主短期内不会受到威胁： 预计到2030 年，该行业仅能满足全球
需求的0.5 个百分点。更重要的是，一些最大的工业化食品公司正在投资该行业。一场保护主义的恐慌大可不必。

【8】Another concern is economic. To date, Upside’s meat has been sold in one San
Francisco restaurant that caters to the rich and curious. Although manufacturing

===== 第 106 页 =====

innovations have slashed prices in recent years, reaching parity with conventional
meat will be a challenge. Allowing the sector to qualify for loan guarantees in line
with traditional farmers would help level the playing field. Streamlining regulatory
approvals, currently shared between the Food and Drug Administration and the
Department of Agriculture, would get more competitors on the market quicker.
Lowering barriers for renewable energy— nuclear, in particular— not only
would reduce costs but also ensure the sector can deliver on its promise of cutting
emissions.

另一个担忧是经济方面的。迄今为止，Upside 的肉只在一家旧金山餐厅出售，该餐厅迎合富人和好奇者。尽管制造创
新近年来已大幅降低了价格，但实现与传统肉类的平价将是一个挑战。允许该行业有资格获得与传统农民同等的贷
款担保将有助于创造公平的竞争环境。 简化目前由食品药品监督管理局和农业部共同负责的监管审批流程，将使更多竞
争者更快进入市场。降低可再生能源——尤其是核能——的壁垒，不仅将降低成本，还能确保该行业兑现其减排承诺。

【9】Lab-grown meat won’t— and at this stage, can’t— replace traditional beef,
pork or poultry. Given the sector’s vast potential, though, policymakers should
remove arbitrary barriers, unleash the forces of capitalism and let American
consumers decide its fate. The planet will be better for it.

实验室培育肉不会——并且在现阶段也不能——取代传统的牛肉、猪肉或禽肉。然而，鉴于该行业的巨大潜力， 政策制
定者应该消除武断的障碍， 释放资本主义的力量，让美国消费者决定其命运。地球将因此变得更好。

===== 第 107 页 =====

考纲考纲词汇表
implausible adj. 难以置信的
alternative n. 可供选择的事物
innovation n. 创新
ambitious adj. 有雄心的
inventive adj. 善于创新的
arbitrary adj. 武断的
obstacle n. 障碍
barrier n. 障碍
originate v. 起源于
biopsy v. 对…进行活组织检
parity n. 平等
查
patty n. 小馅饼
broth n. 肉汤
policymaker n. 决策者
carnivore n. 食肉动物
pollutant n. 污染物
cater v. 满足需要
profound adj. 深刻的
concentrate v. 浓缩
prohibition n. 禁止
conservative adj. 保守的
project v. 预测
constitute v. 构成
protectionist adj. 保护主义的
conventional adj. 传统的
purportedly adv. 据称
cultivate v. 培养
quip v. 说俏皮话
debut v. 首次亮相
ranch n. 大牧场
emit v. 发出
slash v. 大幅度削减
emission n. 排放
skeptical adj. 怀疑的
exemplify v. 例证
soar v. 猛增
flask n. 烧瓶
startup n. 初创企业
fledgling adj. 刚开始的
streamline v. 使合理化
forecast n. 预测
transfer v. 转移
hurdle n. 障碍
unleash v. 释放
impede v. 阻碍
vial n. 小瓶

===== 第 108 页 =====

篇目19.Renaissance art：A room with no view
Michelangelo's fingerprints are all around-or are they?
【1】standing IN THE mausoleum of the Medici chapel in Florence, among tombs
and elegant sculptures designed by Michelangelo, you could be excused for failing
to notice the doorway to the left. It leads to a cloakroom, where a trap door opens to a
flight of narrow steps. At the bottom is a small vaulted room. The eggshell white
walls are covered with graceful nude figures, a falling Phaethon (son of the sun god),
a looming horse's head and several shapely legs drawn in shadowy charcoal
sketches,the museum claims, by the great Renaissance artist himself.

置身于佛罗伦萨美第奇教堂的陵墓中，周围是由米开朗基罗设计的墓穴和优雅的雕塑，您没有注意到左侧
的门道也情有可原。这扇门通向衣帽间，那里的一扇活板门打开后，露出一段狭窄的台阶。台阶底部是一
个小型拱顶房间。蛋壳白的墙壁上布满了优美的裸体人像、坠落的法厄同（太阳神之子）、一个隐约可
的马头以及几条匀称的腿，都是用暗淡的炭笔素描绘成的——博物馆声称，这些出自那位伟大的文艺复兴
艺术家本人之手。

【2】This stanza segreta (secret room) had long been closed. Only scholars and
bigwig s like King Charles III and Leonardo DiCaprio were allowed entry by the
National Museum of the Bargello, of which the chapel is a part. But in November the
basement room was opened for a trial period of four months to 100 prebooked
visitors a week; they are allowed in for 15 minutes in groups of four. Tickets sold out.
Officials recently extended the experiment until July.

这个秘密房间长期关闭。只有学者和大人物，如国王查尔斯三世和莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥，才被作为教堂
管理方的巴尔杰洛国家博物馆允许进入。但在去年11 月，这个下室房间进行了为期四个月的试开放，每
周接待100 名预订游客；他们以四人一组的形式被允许进入15 分钟。门票售罄。官员们最近将这一实验延
长至七月。

===== 第 109 页 =====

【3】Entering the room, which is bare except for ankle-level strips of LED lighting, is
like stepping back in time-not just into the Renaissance, but also into an earlier era of
tourism, when attractions lacked explanatory placards and were free from madding
crowds. Most of all, it feels like entering someone's head, or their notebook, filled
with drafts and doodles, some finely wrought, some cartoonish. You can imagine the
middle-aged master in here, perhaps drawing by night. In several places, the walls
appear to be scorched with black soot from a burning torch.Near a rendering of a
muscular figure, there is even a smudged handprint.

进入这个房间（里面空无一物，只有脚踝高度的LED 灯带），就像回到了过去——不仅是回到文艺复兴时
期，也回到了旅游业的早期时代，那时景点没有兑明牌，也远离发狂的人群。最重要的是，感觉像是
进入了某个人的脑海，或者他们的笔记本，里面充满了草稿和涂鸦，有些制作精良，有些卡通化。你可以
想象那位中年大师在这里，也许在夜晚作画。有几处墙壁似乎被燃烧的火炬烧焦，留下了黑色烟灰。在一
幅肌肉发达人物的渲染图附近，甚至还有一个污浊的手印。

【4】 legend has it that Michelangelo holed up in this stanza segreta for a few months
in 1530.Following a popular uprising three years before, the artist sided with those
who preferred a republic to rule by the Medicis, Italy's wealthiest family, even though
he had designed the mausoleum that bears their name. When the Medicis returned, the
artist was in danger. This small room, conveniently furnished with a well, might have
seemed like a safe haven.

传说，米开朗基罗在1530 年曾在这间秘密房间里躲藏了几个月。在三年前一场民众起义之后，这位艺术家
支持那些更喜欢共和国而非由意大利最富有的美第奇家族统治的人，尽管他设计了以该家族命名的陵墓。
当美第奇家族卷土重来时，这位艺术家陷入了危险。这个小房间便利地配备了一口井，可能看起来像是一
个安全的避难所。

===== 第 110 页 =====

【5】The drawings were rediscovered in 1975 by the Medici chapel's then director,
who suspected that what was then a coal-storage room might be hiding something.
Paola D'Agostino, director of the Bargello until mid-January, felt it was important to
finally make the room accessible to the public. It shows "Michelangelo's human
aspect", she says, though she admits that it is impossible to attribute the drawings
securely to the master and concedes that some of the doodles are probably not his
work.

这些画作于1975 年被当时的美第奇教堂馆长重新发现，他怀疑当时用作储煤室的房间可能隐藏着什么。直
到一月中旬仍担任巴尔杰洛博物馆馆长的保拉·达戈斯蒂诺觉得，最终向公众开放这个房间很重要。她说
这展示了"米开朗基罗人性化的一面"，尽管她承认不可能将这些画作可靠地归因于大师，并承认有些涂鸦
可能不是他的作品。

【6】Other experts doubt it was Michelangelo's hand who drew them. Antonio
Forcellino, who has written two biographies of the artist, believes that none of the
drawings is of high enough quality to merit firm attribution. William Wallace, a
professor at Washington University in St Louis and a leading expert on Michelangelo,
thinks that only a couple maybe by the artist-a head that resembles the famous
Laocoon statue Michelangelo had seen in Rome, as well as a standing male figure
gracing a whole wall near the stairs-and that most were made by some of the 5o or so
workmen employed to build the chapel above.

其他专家怀疑这些画作出自米开朗基罗之手。为这位艺术家写过两部传记的安东尼奥·福尔切利诺认为，
没有一幅画作的质量足够高，足以值得明确因于他。圣路易斯华盛顿大学的教授、米开朗基罗研究首席
专家威廉·华莱士认为，可能只有少数几幅出自这位艺术家之手——一个类似米开朗基罗在罗马见过的著
名拉奥孔雕像的头部，以及楼梯附近装饰了整面墙的一个站立男性形象——而大部分是由受雇建造上方教
堂的大约50 名工人中的一些人绘制的。

===== 第 111 页 =====

【7】As for Michelangelo hiding in the room? “That's totally bogus,” according to Mr
Wallace. The alreadyfamous artist is more likely to have been protected by a friend.
Yet Mr Wallace argues that the room is a landmark finding nonetheless, because
Michelangelo's workmen "are in some ways equal in importance to Michelangelo"
himself. Greatness does not exist in isolation.

至于米开朗基罗躲藏在房间里的说法？华莱士先生说，这"完全是胡扯 "。这位已经成名的艺术家更可能受
到了朋友的保护。然而，华莱士先生认为，尽管如此，这个房间仍是一个里程碑式的发现，因为米开朗基
罗的工人们"在某些方面与米开朗基罗本人同等重要"。伟大并非存在于孤立之中。

【8】Just as the little guys are often overshadowed by the old masters they worked
for, drawing often loses out to flashier forms like painting and sculpture.But the
humble medium communicates the presence of hands, and minds, in motion.

正如小人物常常被他们为之工作的老大师们使黯然失色，素描也常常输给绘画和雕塑等更浮华的形式。但
这种谦逊的 处的媒 传达了手与心在运动中的存在。

【9】Looking at these walls, you feel as if the artists who adorned them nearly five
centuries ago-perhaps hiding from the summer heat, or taking a drink from the well
have just left. Even if this is not the work of Michelangelo, it evokes his world.

凝视这些墙壁，你会感觉仿佛近五个世纪前装饰它们的艺术家们——也许是躲避夏日的炎热，或者从井里
喝口水——刚刚离开。即使这不是米开朗基罗的作品，它也唤起了他的世界。

===== 第 112 页 =====

考纲词汇表

===== 第 113 页 =====

accessible adj. 可进入的
adorn v. 装饰
attribute v. 把…归因于
attribution n. 归属
basement n. 地下室
bigwig n. 要人
biography n. 传记
bogus adj. 伪造的
cartoonish adj. 卡通似的
charcoal n. 木炭
communicate v. 传达
concede v. 承认
conveniently adv. 方便地
doodle n. 涂鸦
elegant adj. 优雅的
evoke v. 唤起
explanatory adj. 解释的
extend v. 延长
flashy adj. 浮华的
grace v. 使增光
haven n. 安全处所
hole up v. 躲藏
humble adj. 谦逊的
isolation n. 隔离
landmark n. 里程碑
legend n. 传说
loom v. 隐约出现
madding adj. 狂乱的
mausoleum n. 陵墓

===== 第 114 页 =====

篇目20.Can high-intensity interval training get you fit in a hurry?
Yes, but be prepared to suffer
【1】IF YOU ASK people why they do not exercise as much as they should,the
most common answer is lack of time. The World Health Organisation recommends
75 minutes of high- intensity exercise, or 150 minutes of moderate -intensity exercise,
every week, as well as two sessions of strength training. If you’re juggling a job, a
commute and children, that can be a big ask.

如果你问人们为什么没有进行足够的锻炼，最常见的回答是缺乏时间。世界卫生组织建议每周进行75
分钟的高强度运动，或150 分钟的中等强度运动，以及两次力量训练。如果你同时要应付工作、 通勤和照
顾孩子，这可能会是个很高的要求。

【2】There may, however, be a shortcut. High-intensity interval training (HIIT)
promises to get you fit with just a few minutes of work a week. It sounds too good to
be true. But the evidence suggests it really works—if, that is, you can stomach the
discomfort. HIIT came to prominence with the work of Tabata Izumi, a sports
scientist at Ritsumeikan University in Kyoto. In 1996 Dr Tabata published a study
comparing the effects of four minutes a day of maximal-effort training on an exercise
bike, five days a week, with a conventional cardio workout of an hour a day on the
same bike at a lower intensity. After six weeks the aerobic fitness of the conventional
group had risen substantially. But the fitness of the max-effort group had gone up
even more.

然而，或许有一条捷径。高强度间歇训练（HIIT） 承诺每周只需几分钟就能让你变得健康。这听起来
好得令人难以置信。但证据表明它确实有效——前提是你能忍受这种不适感。HIIT 因京都立命馆大学的运
动科学家田畑泉的研究而闻名。1996 年，田畑博士发表了一项研究，比较了每周五天、每天四分钟在健身
车上进行最大努力训练的效果，与每天在同样健身车上以较低强度进行一小时传统有氧运动的效果。六
周后， 传统组的有氧适能大量地提高了。但最大努力组的健康水平提升得更多。

===== 第 115 页 =====

【3】There is, though, no such thing as a free lunch. The trade-off for HIIT’s
low time commitment is a big boost to intensity. When Dr Tabata said “maximal
effort”, he really meant it. subjects had to spend 20 seconds going all-out, rest for ten
seconds, then do another 20-second burst at full power, repeated seven or eight times.
That may not sound too bad, but studies of HIIT talk drily of“feelings of nausea”;
anecdotal reports mention vomiting from the effort.

不过，天下没有免费的午餐。HIIT 时间投入少的权衡是强度的大幅提高。当田畑博士说“最大努力”
时，他是认真的。 受试者必须全力冲刺20 秒，休息10 秒，然后再全力冲刺 20 秒，重复七到八次。这听起
来可能不算太糟，但关于HIIT 的研究枯燥地提及“恶心感”；轶事报告则提到了因剧烈运动导致的呕吐。

【4】Unlike slow-and- steady cardio training, HIIT stresses all three of the body’s
main energy systems at once. The aerobic system—which relies on oxygen to
metabolise glucose or fats—is the most efficient and the one most targeted by
standard endurance exercise. But it also has the lowest power output. During the
sprinting phase of a HIIT session, much of the energy therefore comes from the
anaerobic glycolytic and phosphocreatine systems. These produce more power, but
exhaust their metabolic fuels quickly. During rest,the body works to regenerate those
fuels, before the tanks are drained again in the next sprint.

与缓慢平稳的有氧训练不同，HIIT 同时给身体的三个主要能量系统施加压力。有氧系统——依靠氧气
代谢葡萄糖或脂肪——是最高效的，也是标准耐力运动最主要针对的系统。但它也拥有最低的功率输出。
因此，在HIIT 课程的冲刺阶段，大部分能量来自无氧糖酵解和磷酸肌酸系统。这些系统能产生更多能量，
但会快速耗尽代谢燃料。在休息期间，身体会努力再生这些燃料，直到在下次冲刺中再次耗尽。

【5】All this seems to trigger the same sorts of biochemical adaptations as
standard endurance exercise, plus some others into the bargain.HIIT boosts VO₂
max—a measure of maximal oxygen consumption,and therefore aerobic fitness—just

===== 第 116 页 =====

as much as standard endurance training. But unlike jogging, it boosts the anaerobic
systems as well.

所有这些似乎引发了与标准耐力运动相同的生化适应，外加一些额外的益处。HIIT 提升最大摄氧量
——衡量最大氧气消耗量，即有氧适能的指标——的效果与标准耐力训练一样好。但与慢跑不同，它同时
也增强了无氧系统。

【6】If the potential for nausea has started to put you off, then the good news is
that less hard-core workouts than the one Dr Tabata invented also seem to work. One
study, published in 2010, reported positive effects from eight to 12 sets of 60 seconds
of hard (though not maximal) effort followed by 75 seconds of recovery. Another,
published in 2017, noted that doing just two to four sets of less intense HIIT might be
enough.

如果恶心的 T能性已经开始让你望而却步，那么好消息是，比田畑博士发明的方案强度稍低的锻炼似
乎也有效果。2010 年发表的一项研究报告称，进行8 到12 组、每组60 秒的艰苦（但非最大）努力，followed
by 75 秒的恢复，能产生积极效果。另一项2017 年发表的研究指出，仅进行2 到4 组强度较低的HIIT 可
能就足够了。

【7】 inspired by such results, and by the understanding that the best exercise
regime is one people can stick to, most modern HIIT programmes dial back on Dr
Tabata’s original. vomiting, in other words, is not compulsory. So, if jogging is too
boring or too time consuming, HIIT might be the way to go. Just be prepared for a
shock to the system.

受这些结果启发，以及认识到最佳锻炼方案是人们能坚持的方案，大多数现代HIIT 课程都降低了田畑博士
最初方案的强度。换句话说， 呕吐不是强制性的。所以，如果慢跑太无聊或太耗时，HIIT 或许值得一试。
只是要做好让身体经受冲击的准备。

===== 第 117 页 =====

考研5500 考纲词汇(按文中出现顺序):
lack v./n. 缺乏 subject n. 受试者
recommend v. 建议 burst n. 爆发
intensity n. 强度 nausea n. 恶心
moderate adj. 中等的 vomit v. 呕吐
juggle v. 应付 steady adj. 平稳的
commute n. 通勤 metabolise v. 代谢
shortcut n. 捷径 glucose n. 葡萄糖
interval n. 间隔 efficient adj. 高效的
promise v. 承诺 endurance n. 耐力
evidence n. 证据 output n. 输出
stomach v. 忍受 sprint v./n. 冲刺
discomfort n. 不适 phase n. 阶段
prominence n. 突出，闻名 anaerobic adj. 无氧的
conventional adj. 传统的 exhaust v. 耗尽
cardio n. 有氧运动 regenerate v. 再生
aerobic adj. 有氧的 trigger v. 引发
substantially adv. 大量地 biochemical adj. 生化的
trade-off n. 权衡 adaptation n. 适应
commitment n. 投入 consumption n. 消耗
boost v./n. 提高 potential n. 可能性

===== 第 118 页 =====

recovery n. 恢复
positive adj. 积极的
intense adj. 强烈的
inspired adj. 受启发的
regime n. 方案
original adj. 最初的
compulsory adj. 强制性的

===== 第 119 页 =====

篇目21.Artificial intelligence：Job apocalypse?Humbug!人工智能：就业末日？
胡扯！

Al is creating brand new occupations 人工智能正在创造全新的职业
【1】A mock job advertisement that has done the rounds recently calls for a
“killswitch engineer” for OpenAI, maker of ChatGPT. The description requires the
successful applicant to stand by servers all day and unplug them “if this thing turns
on us”. Useful skills include the ability to “throw a bucket of water on the servers,
too. Just in case.”
最近流传的一则虚假招聘广告为ChatGPT 的制造商OpenAI 招聘一名“杀毒开关工程师”。职位描述要
求成功的请者整天守在服务 服务器旁，并在“这东西对我们不利时” 拔掉它们的插头。有用的技能还包括能
够“往服务器上泼一桶水，以防万一。”

【2】Despite widespread fears of job losses owing to the rise of artificial-intelligence
(AI) agents, it is not all gallows humour. The technology is already creating new
roles—to train agents, embed them in organisations and ensure that they behave.
Many of these new jobs, moreover, require uniquely human skills.
尽管人们普遍担心人工智能代理的崛起会导致失业，但并非全是不祥的幽默。这项技术已经在创造新
的角色——训练代理、将其嵌入组织并确保其行为得当。而且，这些新工作中的许多需要独特的人类技能。

【3】Start with data annotators. No longer are they merely low-paid gig
workers tediously tagging images. As AI models have become
more advanced, experts in subjects such as finance, law and medicine
have increasingly been enlisted to help train them. Mercor, a startup that has built
a platform to hire boffins to help build bots, was recently valued at $10bn. Brendan
Foody, its chief executive, says they earn $90 an hour on average.

===== 第 120 页 =====

首先是数据标注员。他们不再仅仅是低薪的零工工人， 味地给图片打标签。随着人工智能模型变得
更加 1先进，金融、法律和医学等学科的专家们越来越多被征召来帮助训练它们。Mercor 是一家初创公司，
建立了一个平台来雇佣专家帮助构建机器人，最近估值达到100 亿美元。其首席执行官布伦丹·富迪表示，
他们平均每小时能挣90 美元。

【4】Once bots are trained, teams of so-called forward-deployed engineers (FDEs)
are needed to embed them into organisations. Palantir, a software giant
that pioneered the concept, imbues them with derring-do. “In the beginning, it was
just us. Two engineers dropped into a military base near Kandahar, handed
minimal-but-clear marching orders from Palo Alto: ‘Go there and win,’” starts a
typical blogpost by a former Palantir FDE.
一旦机器人训练完毕，就需要所谓的先期部署工程师团队将它们嵌入到组织中。 开创这一概念的软件
巨头Palantir，为其注入了胆无畏的精神。一位前Palantir FDE 在一篇典型的博文中写道：“一开始，
只有我们两个人。两名工程师被空降到坎大哈附近的一个军事基地，手里拿着帕洛阿尔托发出的简短但清
晰的命令：‘去那里，然后赢。’
【5】In practice, their jobs are a lend of developer, consultant and salesman. They
work on-site to customise AI tools for a client and get them up and running. FDEs
are proliferating, albeit from a low base. Garry Tan, the boss of YCombinator, a
startup factory, said recently that its young companies had 63 job postings for FDEs,
up from four last year. As AI agents spread, their makers need to understand the
human-facing domains in which their tools operate. A programmer who builds a
customer-service agent, for instance, needs to have a feel for why
a frustrated customer dials zero just to yell at a human.
实际上，他们的工作是开发者、顾问和销售员的结合。他们在现场为客户定制人工智能工具，并使其
启动运行。FDE 正在激增， 尽管基数很低。创业工厂Y Combinator 的老板加里·谭最近表示，其旗下的年
轻公司有63 个FDE 职位招聘，而去年只有4 个。随着人工智能代理的普及，其制造者需要了解其工具运
作的面向人类的领域。例如，构建客服代理的程序员需要理解为什么一个沮丧的客户会拨零只是为了对人
吼叫。

===== 第 121 页 =====

【6】Himanshu Palsule, chief executive of Cornerstone OnDemand, a
skills-development company, uses Waymo, a fast-growing robotaxi firm, as an
example of how the job of a developer is evolving. Waymo’s cars drive themselves
from start to finish. But what if they break down, locking their passengers inside?
Then comes the need for what he calls “the guy—or gal—in the sky”,
a remote human troubleshooter who needs to understand not just the technology, but
also how to handle frazzled passengers. Software engineers, Mr Palsule says, used to
be sought after for their coding abilities, not their bedside manner. No longer. Writing
code can now be done by an algorithm. “Your personality is where
your premium is.”
技能发展公司Cornerstone OnDemand 的首席执行官希曼舒·帕苏尔以快速发展的机器人出租车公司
Waymo 为例，说明开发者的工作如何演变。Waymo 的汽车从始至终自动驾驶。但如果它们抛锚了，把乘客锁
在里面怎么办？这时就需要他所谓的“空中先生或女士”，一个远程的人类故障排除员，不仅需要了解技
术，还需要知道如何应对不堪的乘客。帕苏尔先生表示，软件工程师过去因其编码能力而受到追捧，
而不是他们待人接物的方式。现在不同了。编写代码现在可以由算法完成。“你的价值在于你的个性。”
【7】Then there is the task of setting rules to ensure that AI agents do not bring chaos.
The AI Workforce consortium, a research group led by Cisco, a maker of
networking gear, recently examined 50 IT jobs across rich countries. The fastest
growing, even more so than AI programmers, was AI risk-and-governance specialists,
who are typically involved in ensuring that bots do not leak data or cause a
company’s operations to crash, among other things.
接下来是制定规则以确保人工智能代理不带来混乱的任务。由网络设备制造商思科领导的研究组织AI
Workforce 联盟最近调查了富裕国家的50 个IT 职位。增长最快的，甚至超过人工智能程序员，是人工智
能风险与治理专家，他们通常负责确保机器人不泄露数据或不导致公司运营崩溃等事务。
【8】Responsible for bringing all these roles together is the chief AI officer, an
increasingly popular addition to the c-suite as chief executives look to assure their
boards that they are taking the technology very seriously indeed. Chief AI officers
usually combine technical expertise with deep knowledge of a particular industry and

===== 第 122 页 =====

a record of overhauling corporate processes. It is not a job for the faint-hearted. The
typical large enterprise uses as many as 11 generative-AI models, according to IBM,
an IT company, and is constantly being bombarded by vendors trying to sell agents
for every conceivable function. Those in charge may already feel like reaching for
that killswitch.

负责整合所有这些角色的是首席人工智能官，随着首席执行官们希望向董事会保证他们确实非常重视这项技术，这
一职位在高层管理中越来越受欢迎。首席人工智能官通常将技术专业知识与对特定行业的深入了解以及彻底检修公司
流程的记录结合起来。这不是胆小者能做的工作。根据IT 公司IBM 的数据，典型的大型企业使用多达11 个生成式人工
智能模型，并不断受到供应商的轰炸，试图为每一个conceivable（ 可想象 良的）功能销售代理。负责人们可能已经想
伸手去按那个杀毒开关了。

===== 第 123 页 =====

考研5500 考纲词汇表：
domain n. 领域
mock adj. 虚假的
frustrated adj. 沮丧的
applicant n. 申请者
dial v. 拨
server n. 服务器
executive n. 执行官
unplug v. 拔掉
evolve v. 演变
bucket n. 桶
remote adj. 远程的
gallows n. 绞刑架；adj. 不祥的
troubleshooter n. 故障排除员
embed v. 嵌入
frazzled adj. 疲惫不堪的
annotator n. 标注员
algorithm n. 算法
tediously adv. 乏味地
premium n. 价值
tag v. 打标签
consortium n. 联盟
advanced adj. 先进的
gear n. 设备
expert n. 专家
typically adv. 通常
increasingly adv. 越来越多地
leak v. 泄露
enlist v. 征召
crash v. 崩溃
startup n. 初创公司
expertise n. 专业知识
platform n. 平台
overhaul v. 彻底检修
hire v. 雇佣
conceivable adj. 可想象的
boffin n. 专家

chief adj. 首席的
pioneer v. 开创
imbue v. 注入
derring-do n. 大胆无畏
blend n. 结合
on-site adj. 现场的
customise v. 定制
client n. 客户
proliferate v. 激增
albeit conj. 尽管
